Steve
Thank you for coming.
We’re gonna make some history together today.
[0:00:50]
So, welcome to Macworld.
You know, it was.. uh it was just a year ago that I was up here and announced that we were gonna switch to Intel processors.[0:01:03]
A huge, heart transplant to Intel microprocessors. And uh I said that we would do it over the coming 12 months. We did it in seven months, and it was the [cough]
– it’s been the smoothest and most successful transition that we’ve ever seen in the history of our industry. [0:01:25]
And it was because [cough] we made a beautiful, seamless version of OSX for Intel processors. And our team created Rosetta software which lets you run PowerPC apps on top of OSX on Intel processors.
Our hardware team got to cranking out a new Mac with Intel processors every month, and we completed this transition in seven months. But we didn’t do this alone. We did this with the help of a lotta folks. [0:01:57]
Our new colleagues at Intel really helped us. Thank you very much. [cough] [0:02:04]
Our thir… [0:02:06]
Our third-party developers rapidly moving their apps to universal versions to run at native speeds on Intel processors. Thank you very much. [0:02:18]
And most of all, our users. The minute you saw these lightning-fast machines, ya bought ’em. And we’ve had an extremely successful year, and I want to thank our users very much.[0:02:32]

Now, as many of you know, our retail stores have for a while been selling over half their Macs to people who have never owned a Mac before: switchers. [0:02:48]
Well, I’m pleased to report that now, in the U.S., Macs selling through all channels, over half of them are selling to people who’ve never owned a Mac before. It’s not just limited to our retail stores anymore. Half the Macs we’re selling in the U.S.
We are picking up lots and lots of new members of the Mac family, and we couldn’t be happier. As a matter of fact, here’s uh uh uh one that might be coming on soon. Jim Allchin at Microsoft was quoted recently as saying if he didn’t work for Microsoft, he would buy a Mac, and he’s retiring soon, so I’ve alerted our Seattle stores to keep an eye out for him and give him really good service. [cough] [0:03:27]
You know, uh Vista’s coming out, and uh you know our ads with the Mac guy and the PC guy, uh we made a little ad for Vista, and I’d love to show it to you now, if you’d like to see it? So let’s go ahead and run it. [0:03:39]

[cough]

[Apple ad]
[0:04:17]

So, 2007 is gonna be a great year for the Mac. But this is all we’re gonna talk about the Mac today.
We’re gonna move on to some other things and over the course of the next several months we’re gonna roll out some awesome stuff for the Mac.
But for today, we’re gonna move on. [0:04:42]

So, the first thing I’d like to do is give you an update about our music business.
As you know, we’ve got the.. the iPod, best music player in the world.
We’ve got the iPod nanos, brand new models, colors are back.
We’ve got the amazing new iPod Shuffle. [0:05:01]
The iPod, in addition to being the world’s best MP3 player, has become the world’s most popular video player, and by a large margin.
The iPod Nano is the world’s most popular MP3 player, by a wide margin.[0:05:18]
And the new shuffle is the world’s most wearable MP3 player.
So we had an incredible line-up for this holiday season, all refreshed and new products.[0:05:31]
Now I’d like to tell you a few things about iTunes now that are pretty exciting.
Number one, we have crossed a major milestone. We have sold over 2 billion songs on iTunes. It’s amazing.
Now, there were some.. there was an article recently that said iTunes sales had slowed dramatically. I don’t know what data they’re looking at, but uh this is our data, and what we see is iTunes sales were really up this past year. uh It took us over three years to get to a billion songs. We got our second billion in 10 months in 2006. And growing off us over 600 million song base, we doubled it in 2006.
So we couldn’t be happier with the growth rate of iTunes and selling 2 billion songs.[0:06:26]
Now, we are selling over 5 million songs a day, now. Isn’t that unbelievable?
5 million songs a day. That’s 58 songs every second of every minute of every hour of every day. And the last time we talked to you, we said that we were the 5th largest music reseller in the U.S. Now all these other guys sell music on CDs, and of course we sell it online. But if you add up all the music that’s sold, we were the fifth-largest reseller. Because of the growth of iTunes, I am pleased to report that we have now passed Amazon. [0:06:59]
We sell more music than Amazon, and we are now number four. And you can guess who our next Target might be. So, so that’s an update for music.

[0:07:15]

Now I wanna talk about TV shows.
We’ve got awesome TV shows on iTunes. As a matter of fact we have over 350 TV shows that you can buy episodes from on iTunes. And I’m very pleased to report that we have sold now 50 million TV shows on iTunes. Isn’t that incredible? [0:07:34]
Now, now, let me go on to movies.
When we started with television shows, the pioneering partner we had was the Walt Disney Company.[0:07:47]
They decided to throw in with us and sell TV shows, and boy did it work. Well, when we decided to sell movies, they were right there with us again as our pioneering partner to sell movies. And I am really pleased to announce that in the first four months of selling movies, we have sold 1.3 million movies on iTunes, which I think has exceeded all of our expectations.[0:08:11]
And today, we have a new partner joining the Walt Disney Comany to sell movies on iTunes, and that is Paramount.
Paramount is gonna be selling movies on iTunes. And uh we’re thrilled because they have some awesome movies. Let me just show you a few of the titles here that are going up as we..
as we speak. [Cover flow of Movies]
[0:08:38]
All.. all six Star Trek movies. [0:08:45]
So we are gonna be moving up from the hundred movies we’ve offered so far to over 250 movies now offered on iTunes. These are getting up as fast as we can over the next week or so.
And we hope to be adding even more movies as other studios throw in with us as 2006 rolls on. So that’s an update on iTunes. [0:09:05]

Now, as I said, we had a very strong lineup of music players for this holiday season. We always have stiff competition. That’s just part of this business.
And we had a new competitor this last holiday season, which was, of course, Microsoft’s Zune. [00:09:21]
So how’d they do? Well, we don’t have data for December yet, cuz it’s not out till next week or the week after, I forget. [NOTE: present tense]
But we have data for November, which was their launch month, should have been real big. And they garnered two percent market share.
Two percent market share. uh iPod had 62 percent market share, and the rest had 36. [0:09:43]
Now again, we don’t have data for December. We know we went up uh uh quite a bit in December in terms of market share. And uh we’ll find out how they did. But two percent in their launch month.
So, no matter how you try to spin this, UHM what can you say? [0:10:01]

So that’s an update on how we’re doing in the new music business, and we’ve got a few new ads for iPods.
And we work with some of the greatest folks to create advertising. And uh.. uh they created this.. this wonderful ad that I’d love to show you right now, so let me go ahead and roll it. [0:10:22]

[Ad plays] [cough]
Whew. [0:10:58]

Now, just to let you in on our process a little bit. These guys are incredibly creative, they couldn’t stop. And they took the same song, which is a uh you know uh uh uh uh a up-and-coming British pop group, and they uhm.. they took the same dancers, and they did some different animation, and they came up with what you’re about to see. [0:11:20]

[Ad plays]
[0:11:55]

Isn’t that great? So, those’ll be running shortly. And that is an update to our music business. [0:12:07]

Now, I’d like to talk about a product we introduced in September. uh called, it was called the code name was iTV. We have a new name for it. It’s called Apple TV. uh but you should never, you should either go with your code name, like we did with the Mac, or you should pick a code name quite a bit – a real name quite a bit different than your code name, so I’ll probably stumble and call this iTV five times today by mistake. I apologize. So Apple TV. [0:12:32]

And uh Apple TV is a way to enjoy your media on your big screen TV.
So let’s let’s uh backtrack and talk about what we did when we uh previewed this in September.
You can buy great content on the iTunes music store: Movies, TV shows and music, of course. [0:12:49]
And you can download it to your computer, be it a PC or a Mac. I’m.. I’m gonna use a Mac here. You can put other content on your computer from other places too, of course. [0:12:57]
And you can put that content on your iPod, right?
Now, you can go out and buy a wide-screen TV, hook up an Apple TV to it, and wirelessly transmit that content from your PC to your Apple TV and watch it on your big screen TV.
It’s that simple. Right? It’s that simple. [0:13:15]
So, this is it. Let’s take a look at around the back at the connectors to refresh ourselves.
We have a power connector, USB 2, and Ethernet.
We have wi-fi wireless networking built in. And then we have ways to get video out. An HDMI connector, which is digital audio and video. Or component video and analog and digital audio. Right? All out the back.
Most people, however, will just use these three. They’ll plug it in. There’s no power brick necessary. And they’ll hook up an HDMI cable to their wide-screen TV, and they’ll use wireless networking to get their content. So it’s really, really easy to use. [0:13:50]

And let me tell you more a little more in-depth about what this box does. First of all it delivers up to 720p high-definition video. Right?
Number one.
Number two, it’s got a 40 gigabyte hard-drive inside it. So it will store up to 50 hours of video. Which comes in handy for something I’m about to show you. [0:14:10]
And it has 802.11 wi-fi wireless networking, and it’s got all three of the popular standards. It’s got B, G, and the new Draft N standard, which is really, really fast. And it’s got an Intel processor in it, so it’s got the processing horsepower to do the kinds of user interfaces we like to do. [0:14:31]
So it’s a really cool box. It works with video, music and photos. It was designed for wide-screen TVs. It’s got wi-fi wireless networking, internal 40 gig hard drive.
It, you can auto-sync your content from one computer.
And you can stream content from up to five computers. So let’s examine this in a little more detail. Auto-sync from one computer. What does this mean?
It means you can take one of the computers in your house, and right from iTunes, just like you would set up an iPod, you could set up your Apple TV. And you can set up your Apple TV to say, oh, take my ten most recently purchased unwatched movies and automatically put them on the hard drive of Apple TV. So that whenever I walk up to Apple TV, they’re there. Right? [0:15:20]
So let me show you, I’m gonna to do this with six TV shows. They just automatically, whenever I buy them, they just automatically will stream in the background to Apple TV and be stored on the hard drive. [0:15:30]
Right? So whenever I go to watch something, they are there.[0:15:34]
Now, I can also stream from up to five computers. In this case, I’m gonna take content from five computers, and I can watch it on Apple TV but I will..will not store it on the hard drive.[0:15:45]
Right, so you can just stream it live and watch it from other computers in the house. Or if your neighbor comes over with a.. a notebook and they’ve got something cool that you wanna watch on your widescreen TV. Again, PCs or Macs, I just choose the computer that I like. [0:15:57]

So, this is Apple TV, and oh why don’t we go ahead and show it to you? You can control it with this very simple remote. So let’s go see a demo. [0:16:06]
This is the screen saver. Takes all your photographs here and just puts them on your TV and they’re gorgeous, because as you know, phot…photography these days is high-def, with these amazing digital cameras that we have. [0:16:21]
So, let’s go into the main menu of iTV, and uh here’s what it looks like. We’ve got movies, TV shows, music, podcasts, photos. So let’s go into movies here. And we go into movies and uh, let’s see here now, we have uhm all my movies that are stored on iTV, as well as the iTunes top movies. I can go see what’s selling on iTunes and stream it down and watch it on iTV. I can also look at theatrical trailers. Again, this is not stored on iTV. This is actually coming over the live Internet. Into my house through my Internet gateway, wirelessly to i – to Apple TV, and I can watch theatrical trailers streaming right from Apple.com. So let’s go in here. [0:17:08]
And uh what’s a cool trailer? Uhmmm gonna watch..yeah this one called the Good Shepherd. [Mumbling where’d it go..oh G.. Good Shepard, there we go]
Boom. So let’s watch this, I just click on it, and this is streaming live from Apple.com. [0:17:23]

[Movie trailer] [0:18:01]

So you get the idea. You can sit on your couch and watch theatrical movie trailers with iTV.
Now, let’s back up here, and let’s go play a movie. uhm We’ve got Zoolander here. Let’s go play a little part of Zoolander. One of our new Paramount movies.[0:18:17]

[Movie clip] [0:19:07]

Isn’t this great?
So, that’s movies, and uh let’s go take a look at uh at in ZooTV shows here.
It’s…. again, incredibly cool. Let’s go into uh “Heroes,” a really great new show, and uh let’s play an episode called Better Halves. [0:19:26]

[TV clip] [0:20:47]

[Chuckles]. OK, well, that’s TV shows. And uh Now let me show you uh music.
You know, iTV, of course is – Apple TV is uh primarily for video, but it turns out it’s awesome for listening to music on your home theater system, as well. We think a lot of people are going to buy it uh buy it for that.
So we’ve got music here, we’ve got the iTunes top music and top music videos.
And uh let me go down into a playlist here. [0:21:15]
And uh, We’ve got a favorites playlist, I’ll go into that.
And I’ll just shuffle some songs, cause I wanna show you what it’s like when you’re playing music here. [0:21:24]

[Music plays] [cough]
[0:21:44]
So it does that so it doesn’t burn a hole in your uh plasma TV there.[0:21:48]
And uh we can go ahead and just go to the next track here.
next track.
So that’s what it’s like to play music. [0:22:07]
Alright. [0:22:12]

So now let’s go to photos. You know, Again, your photos are high-def. These new digital cameras are awesome. [0:22:19]
And so you can just, again, move your photos to iTV or stream them over, over wireless networking. And see your photos right on your TV. So as an example, here’s a photo album I made of uh. [0:22:33]
[slideshow plays with music]
just beautiful.

[0:23:04]
So you get the idea. It’s really cool to watch photos on your widescreen TV.
[0:23:10]

Now, uh what I’ve been demonstrating so far uh is primarily content that has been synced to Apple TV from my computer and I’d like to show you what it’s like uh when you uh wanna connect to someone else’s computer. [0:23:24]
Let’s say uh Phil Schiller my neighbor comes over and uh he’s got his MacBook and.. Phil, what do you got on your MacBook. You got some content we could watch? [0:23:31]

[Phil Schiller]

[0:23:35]

Great, Well, let me just go down here to sources, and uh here’s the uh you know Apple TV that I’ve been playing off the hard drive of, and I just say I wanna connect to a new iTunes right here, and iTunes is running on Phil’s machine. It says type in this PIN, for security reasons, and Phil types in the PIN into his MacBook and uh the minute. They’re fully authenticated now, and there’s Phil’s MacBook right up there and I push it, and now I’m gonna be looking at the content right off of Phil’s MacBook and what you wanna watch, Phil? [0:24:07]
[Phil Schiller]

Alright, here we go. Which one?
[Phil Schiller]
Alright go to 30 Rock here.
[Phil Schiller]
… Jack meets Dennis, OK, great. Here we go. [0:24:21]
We’re streaming off of Phil’s MacBook to this Apple TV live. [0:24:24]

[30 Rock clip]
[0:25:05]

Alright, so, Thanks Phil.
[Phil Schiller]
That is Apple TV. [0:25:14]

[0:25:22] So we think this is pretty cool.
Apple TV. Movies, TV shows, music and photos all on your widescreen TV.
I’m really excited about it. So Apple TV is gonna be priced at $299.
Right? $299 for all this built in. [0:25:48]
And we’re gonna be shipping them next month, in February, and we are taking orders starting today.
So, Apple TV. Enjoy your media on your big-screen TV. We think this is gonna be really something quite special. Apple TV.[0:26:09]

[0:26:22]
This is a day I’ve been looking forward to for two-and-a-half years.[0:26:28]

Every once in a while, a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything. And Apple has been – well, first of all, one’s very fortunate if you get to work on just one of these in your career.
Apple’s been very fortunate. It’s been able to introduce a few of these into the world.
In 1984, we introduced the Macintosh. It didn’t just change Apple, it changed the whole computer industry.[0:27:12]
In 2001, we introduced the first iPod, and… it didn’t just – it didn’t just change the way we all listen to music, it changed the entire music industry. [0:27:36]
Well, today, we’re introducing three revolutionary products of this class. [0:27:48]

The first one: is a widescreen iPod with touch controls. [0:27:59]
The second: is a revolutionary mobile phone. [0:28:13]
And the third is a breakthrough Internet communications device.[0:28:28]

So, three things: a widescreen iPod with touch controls; a revolutionary mobile phone; and a breakthrough Internet communications device. [0:28:44]
An iPod, a phone, and an Internet communicator. An iPod, a phone … are you getting it? [0:29:01]
These are not three separate devices, this is one device, and we are calling it iPhone. [0:29:19]
Today, today Apple is going to reinvent the phone, and here it is. [0:29:30]
No, actually here it is, but we’re gonna leave it there for now. [0:29:41]

So, before we get into it, let me uh talk about a category of things. The most advanced phones are called smart phones. So they say. [0:29:57]
And uh they typically combine a phone plus some e-mail capability, plus they say it’s the Internet. It’s sort of the baby Internet, into one device, and they all have these plastic little keyboards on them.
uh And the problem is that they’re not so smart and they’re not so easy to use, so if you kinda make a… Business School 101 graph of the smart axis and the easy-to-use axis, phones, regular cell phones are kinda right there, they’re not so smart, and they’re – you know – not so easy to use. [0:30:28]
uhm But smart phones are definitely a little smarter, but they actually are harder to use. They’re really complicated. Just for the basic stuff a hard time figuring out how to use them. [0:30:41]
Well, we don’t wanna do either one of these things. What we wanna do is make a leapfrog product that is way smarter than any mobile device has ever been, and super-easy to use.
This is what iPhone is. OK? [0:30:57]

[0:30:59]
So, we’re gonna reinvent the phone. [0:31:01]
Now, we’re gonna start… with a revolutionary user interface.. is the result of years of research and development, and of course, it’s an interplay of hardware and software.
Now, why do we need a revolutionary user interface? I mean, Here’s four smart phones, right? Motorola Q, the BlackBerry, Palm Treo, Nokia E62 – the usual suspects. [0:31:33]
And, what’s wrong with their user interfaces? Well, the problem with them is really sort of in the bottom 40 there. It’s, it’s this stuff right here.
They all have these keyboards that are there whether you need them or not to be there.
And they all have these control buttons that are fixed in plastic and are the same for every application. Well, every application wants a slightly different user interface, a slightly optimized set of buttons, just for it.
And what happens if you think of a great idea six months from now? You can’t run around and add a button to these things. They’re already shipped. [0:32:07]
So what do you do?
It doesn’t work because the buttons and the controls can’t change. They can’t change for each application, and they can’t change down the road if you think of another great idea you wanna add to this product. [0:32:22]

Well, how do you solve this?
Hmm. It turns out, we have solved it! [0:32:27]
We solved it in computers 20 years ago. We solved it with a bit-mapped screen that could display anything we want. Put any user interface up. And a pointing device. We solved it with the mouse. Right?
We solved this problem. So how’re we gonna take this to a mobile device?
What we gonna do is get rid of all these buttons and just make a giant screen.
A giant screen. [0:32:54]
Now, how are we gonna communicate this? We don’t wanna carry around a mouse, right?
So what are we gonna do? Oh, a stylus, right?
We’re gonna use a stylus.
No. No. Who wants a stylus?
You have to get em and put em away, and you lose em. Yuck.
Nobody wants a stylus. So let’s not use a stylus.
We’re gonna use the best pointing device in the world. We’re gonna use a pointing device that we’re all born with – we’re born with ten of them. We’re gonna use our fingers.
We’re gonna touch this with our fingers. And we have invented a new technology called multi-touch, which is phenomenal. [0:33:33]
It works like magic.
You don’t need a stylus. It’s far more accurate than any touch display that’s ever been shipped.
It ignores unintended touches, it’s super-smart.
You can do multi-finger gestures on it.
And boy, have we patented it. [0:33:54]

So, so we have been very lucky to have brought a few revolutionary user interfaces to the market in our time.
First was the mouse.
The second was the click wheel.
And now, we’re gonna bring multi-touch to the market. [0:34:20]
And each of these revolutionary user interfaces has made possible a revolutionary product – the Mac, the iPod and now the iPhone. [0:34:30]
So, a revolutionary user interface.
We’re gonna build on top of that with software. Now, software on mobile phones is like is like baby software.
It’s not so powerful, and today we gonna show you a software breakthrough. Software that’s at least five years ahead of what’s on any other phone. [0:34:55]
Now how do we do this? Well, we start with a strong foundation: iPhone runs OSX.
Now, why, why would we wanna run such a sophisticated operating system on a mobile device? Well, because it’s got everything we need.
It’s got multi-tasking.
It’s got the best networking.
It already knows how to power manage. We’ve been doing this on mobile computers for years. It’s got awesome security.
And the right apps.
It’s got everything from Cocoa and the graphics and it’s got core animation built in and it’s got the audio and video that OSX is famous for.
It’s got all the stuff we want. [0:35:43]
And it’s built right into iPhone. And that has let us create desktop class applications and networking, right. [0:35:52]
Not the crippled stuff that you find on most phones. This is real, desktop-class applications. [0:35:59]

Now, you know, one of the pioneers of our industry, Alan Kay, has had a lot of great quotes throughout the years. And I ran across one of them recently that explains how we look at this.
Explains why we go about doing things the way we do, cause we love software.[0:36:18]
And here’s the quote: “People who are really serious about software should make their own hardware.” [0:36:25]
You know, Alan said this 30 years ago, and this is how we feel about it.
And so we’re bringing breakthrough software to a mobile device for the first time.
It’s five years ahead of anything on any other phone.
The second thing we’re doing is we’re learning from the iPod, syncing with iTunes.
You know, we’re gonna ship our 100 millionth iPod this year, and that’s a lo… 10s of millions of people that know how to sync these devices with their PCs or Mac and sync all of their media right on to their iPod. [0:36:59]
Right?
So you just drop your iPod in, and it automatically syncs.
You’re gonna do the same thing with iPhone. It automatically syncs to your PC or Mac right through iTunes.
And iTunes is gonna sync all of your media onto your iPhone: Your music, your audio books, podcasts, movies, TV shows, music videos. [0:37:19]
But it also syncs a ton of data: Your contacts, your calendars and your photos, which you can get on your iPod today, your notes, your..your bookmarks from your Web browser, your e-mail accounts, your whole e-mail set-up. All that stuff can be moved over to your iPhone completely automatically.
It’s really nice.
And we do it, we do it through iTunes. [0:37:41]
Again, you go to iTunes and you set it up. Just like you’d set up an iPod or an Apple TV. And you set up what you want synced to your iPhone. And it’s just like an iPod. Charge and sync. So sync with iTunes.[0:37:55]

Third thing I wanna talk about a little is design. [0:38:00]
We’ve designed something wonderful for your hand, just wonderful.
And this is what it looks like.
It’s got a three-and-a-half-inch screen on it. It’s really big.
And, it’s the highest-resolution screen we’ve ever shipped. It’s 160 pixels per inch.
Highest we’ve ever shipped. It’s gorgeous.
And on the front, there’s only one button down there.
We call it the home button. Takes you home from wherever you are.
And that’s it. Let’s take a look at the side. [0:38:31]
It’s really thin. It’s thinner than any smart phone out there, at 11.6 millimeters.
Thinner than the Q, thinner than the BlackJack, thinner than all of them.
It’s really nice.
And we’ve got some controls on the side, we’ve got a little switch for ring and silent, we’ve got a volume up and down control.
Let’s look at the back.
On the back, the biggest thing of note is we’ve got a two-megapixel camera built right in.
The other side, we’re back in the front.
So let’s take a look at the top now.
We’ve got a headset jack. 3 and half millimeter all your iPod headphones fit right in.
We’ve got a place, a little tray for your SIM card, and we’ve got one switch for sleep and wake. Just push it to go to sleep, push it to wake up. [0:39:18]
Let’s take a look at the bottom.
We’ve got a speaker, we’ve got a microphone, and we’ve got our 30-pin iPod connector.
So that’s the bottom.

Now, we’ve also got some stuff you can’t see.
We’ve got three really advanced sensors built into this phone. [0:39:38]
The first one is a proximity sensor. It senses when physical objects get close, so when you bring iPhone up to your ear, to take a phone call, it turns off the display, and it turns off the touch sensor, instantly.
Well, why do you wanna do that?
Well, one to save battery, but two, so you don’t get spurious inputs from your face into the touch screen.
Just automatically turns them off, take it away, boom, it’s back on.
So it’s got a proximity sensor built in.
It’s got an ambient light sensor, as well. We sense the ambient lighting conditions and adjust the brightness of the display to match the ambient lighting conditions.
Again, better user experience, saves power. [0:40:10]
And the third thing we’ve got is an accelerometer, so that we can tell when you switch from portrait to landscape. It’s pretty cool. Show it to you in a minute. So three advanced sensors built in.[0:40:22]

So, let’s go ahead and turn it on.
This is the size of it. It fits beautifully in the palm of your hand.
So, an iPod, a phone, and an internet communicator.
Let’s start with the iPod. You can touch your music.
You can just touch your music, it’s so cool.
You’ve got a widescreen video. [0:40:51]
You can find your music even faster.
Gorgeous album art on this display.
Built-in speaker, and, why not? Cover flow. First time ever on an iPod.
So rather than talk about this some more, let me show it to you. [0:41:08]

Alrighty.
Now, I’ve got some special – some special – iPhones up here, they’ve got a little special board in them so I can get some digital video out, and I’ve got a little cord here which goes up to these projectors, and uh so I’ve got some great images, and you get to see what it really looks like.
So, let me, I’ve got a camera here so you can see what I’m doing with my finger for a few seconds [sniff].
And uh let me go ahead and get that picture within picture up.
I’m gonna go ahead and just push the sleep/wake button and there we go, right there. [0:41:47]
And to unlock the phone I just take my finger and slide it across.
Want to see that again? Sleep.
We wanted something you couldn’t do by accident in your pocket.
Just slide it across. Boom.
And this is the home screen of iPhone right here.
And so if I want to get in the iPod, I just go down to that lower right hand corner and push this icon right here, and boom, I’m in the iPod.
I wanna get home, I push the home button right here, and I’m home. [0:42:16]
Back in the iPod. I am back in the iPod.
Now, here I am you see five buttons across he bottom.
Playlists, artists, songs, videos and more. I’m in artists right now.
Well, how do I scroll through my lists of artists? [0:42:29]
How do I do this? I just take my finger, and I scroll. [0:42:35]
That’s it. Isn’t that cool?
A little rubber banding up when I run off the edge.

And if I wanna pick somebody, let’s say I wanna pick the Beatles, I just tap them, and here’s the Beatles songs with their albums right here.
If I wanna play Sgt. Pepper’s I just hit Sgt. Pepper’s right there, and uh “A Little Help From My Friends.” [0:43:00]
Look at this gorgeous album artwork here.
Of course, I’ve got a volume control.
Now, I’ve got a little button up in the corner right here, you can see in the upper right-hand corner, I can hit that and flip the album art around.
There’s all the other songs back here.
And I can play “Lovely Rita” if I want to.
Flip it back around. Very simple.
Right, I can set some stars back here just by setting the arrows. Right?
That’s a five star album. Isn’t that cool? Yeah, it’s pretty nice.[0:43:40]

Now, let me show you something else.
I just take my unit here, and I turn it landscape mode, oh, look what happens!
I’m in cover flow.
Let’s go into Dylan here, let’s play “Like a Rolling Stone.”
I just thumb through, just thumb through my albums.
It’s really easy.
Anytime I find something I like, I can just turn it around, and play something.
It’s that easy.
[playing around with different music]
It’s that simple.
Isn’t that great? Yeah.
Alright. I could play with this for a long time. uh [0:45:05]

Now, Again, I’ve got playlists here.
I can go into my playlists. I’ve got artists. I’ve got songs.
Uh I’ve got more over here. I’ve got you know – albums.
I’ve got a great album view again that shows all my album artwork right here if I want.
uh And uh I’ve also got audio books and compilations and things like that.
I’ve also got videos here. [0:45:24]
So I push videos and uh I’ve got here i’ve got a podca.. video podcast loaded on, and a music video.
And I’ve got a TV show and a movie, and I’d like you to just show the uh TV show here. This is an episode from The Office. All videos we look at in uh.. in landscape. [0:45:38]

[Video plays – The Office] [0:46:33]

We have touch controls on here, of course.
Isn’t that awesome? Isn’t that awesome?
Let’s go uh… [0:45:40]

Now I wanna show you uh a movie playing. Let’s play Pirates of the Caribbean, the second one, here.
Great movie, by the way. And uh… [0:46:48]

[Movie plays] [continues to talk]
Now this is a widescreen movie so I just double-tap and I can see the whole thing here, or I can fill up the screen, whichever I like.
[stops talking]
[watches movie]

And again, I’ve got on-screen controls here. Isn’t this cool? [0:47:15]
So we can be watching feature-length movies just like this.
Alrighty. So that – is the iPod.
Pretty cool, huh? [0:47:30]
We’ve just started. So again, touch your music. [0:47:38]
scroll through your songs, scroll through your playlists. [0:47:41]
It’s incredible. Widescreen video like you’ve never seen on a portable device, 160 pixels per inch, gorgeous screen quality.
Gorgeous album art, and cover flow. [0:47:54]
It’s the best iPod we’ve ever made.
Again, some of the screen shots [sniff]. It’s unbelievable.
Here’s some album art I just put up, so you can see what it looks like.
Just, no matter what you like, it looks pretty doggone gorgeous.
And of course, cover flow and video, with on-screen controls.[0:48:28]

You know, I was showing this to somebody –
I was giving a demo to somebody a little while ago, who had never seen this before, inside Apple. And I uh finished the demo, I said what do you think.
He told me this, he said, you had me at scrolling. [0:48:45]
So, the iPhone with the most amazing iPod ever.
You can now touch your music. [0:48:55]

So that’s the iPod.
Now, let’s take a look at a revolutionary phone. [0:49:02]
We wanna reinvent the phone.
Now, what’s the killer app?
The killer app is making calls!
It’s amazing, it’s amazing how hard it is to make calls on most phones.
Most people actually dial them every time. [0:49:19]
Most people don’t have very many numbers in their address book they use their recents as their address book. Right?
How many of you do that? I bet more than a few.
So, we wanna let you use contacts like never before.
You can sync your iPhone with your PC or Mac and bring down all your contacts right into your phone. So you’ve got everybody’s numbers with you at all times. [0:49:41]
We have something that’s going to revolutionize voice mail today. We call it visual voice mail.
Wouldn’t it be great – if you didn’t – if you had six voice mails if you didn’t have to listen to five of them first before you wanted to listen to the sixth?
Wouldn’t that be great if you had random access voice mail? [0:49:58]
Well, we’ve got it. Just like e-mail you can go directly to the voice mails that interest you. Excellent audio audio quality. iPhone is a quad-band, GSM plus Edge phone.
We have decided, we decided, to go with the most popular international standard, which is GSM. We’re on that bandwagon, headed on that roadmap, and uh plan to make 3G phones and all sorts of other amazing things in the future. So, quad-band GSM plus edge, and of course we have wi-fi and Bluetooth 2.0 EDR built in, as well.[0:50:34]

[0:50:36]

And so this is what it looks like when you get a call.
This is what it sounds like. It’s one of our ring tones, you can pick of course.[0:50:45]

So, I wanna show you four things.
I wanna show you the phone app, photos, got a calendar, and SMS messaging. [0:50:00]
The kind of things you would find on a typical phone, but in a very untypical way now.
So let’s go ahead and take a look.
So let’s go to our phone, first. [0:51:17]
You see that uh icon in the lower left-hand corner, the phone?
I just push it right here, and boom, I’m in the phone.
And I’ve got five buttons across the bottom: favorites, recents, contacts, keypad and voice mail. I’m in contacts, right now, again. How do I move around my contacts?
I just scroll through them.
And so, let’s say I wanna make a call to Jony Ive.
I can just push here, and I see Jony Ive’s context, with all his information: his three phone numbers, his e-mail, whatever else, his address, whatever else I’ve got.
It’s all in one place.
And if I wanna call Jony, all I do is push his phone number. I’ll call his mobile number right now. And now, we are calling Jony here.

[0:52:07] Hey, Jony, how you doing?
Well, it’s been 2 and a half years, and I.. I can’t tell you how thrilled I am to make the first public phone call with iPhone.
I… I remember when we first started working on this, and it’s.. it’s just unbelievable. Wah, whoa, what is this? I’ve got another call coming in. Jony, can I put you on hold for a minute? Ok. So I put Jony on hold and …

Hi Phil.[0:52:44]
[Schiller says: Hey, Steve, I wanted to be the first call!”]

Sorry Phil! As you can see, it’s pu.. put Jony on hold, and Phil, I can just touch Jony and bring Jony back. Hey, Jony are you there?
Hey listen, uh Phil called. Do you mind if I conference him in?

[“I guess so,” Ive says]

You can see the m.. uh button has changed to merge calls right there in the middle, so I just push that right here, and now, I’ve created a conference call.
Jony, you there? Phil, you there?

So here we are, and uh listen I gotta get back to my keynote, so uh if I wanna do that, what i’m gonna.. I just touch this arrow right here, and uh I’m gonna go ahead and take Jony private here and uh put Phil on hold. Jony, do you have anything to say on the first phone call? [0:53:43]

[“It’s not too shabby is it?” Ive says]

It’s not too shabby. You take care, Jony.
And I end this call. and it..Phil’s on hold. I take him off of hold.
Phil, thanks very much, I gotta get back to the keynote now.
Bye-Bye.
Alrighty.[0:54:02]

So, now I’ve also got a way to make a list of favorites here, from my most-often called numbers so I can just touch it once and dial.. dial the number.
And I might wanna add somebody to favorites, so let’s say I wanna add Phil Schiller, I just push that plus button in the upper right-hand corner right there, and up pop my favorites, and I can just go to uh “S” is here and there’s Phil, so uh Phil Schiller is right there.
And uh I’ll put, let’s say I wanna put Phil’s work number, and it’s added Phil, right there you can see the favorites.
I can edit favorites by pushing the edit button in the upper left-hand corner, and I can move Phil up if I want to,you know maybe to the top.
And uh let’s see, i’m not gonna.. you know type Tony’s changed his number I’ve got to update this anyway, so I’m gonna get rid of that and I can just remove Tony. Boom, there we go.
It’s that simple to edit these things. Very, very easy.
I’ve got recents right here, which is all my recent phone calls. [0:55:02]
If I wanna see the ones I’ve missed, which are in red, I can just go up and touch that button at the top, and boom, those are all the ones I’ve missed, and those are all the calls that I’ve placed or have gotten.[0:55:14]
If I wanna dial the phone, if I’m real last-century, I can push keypad here, and uh I can dial a call just with … oops, called four, sorry.
Wrong number.
uh 408 uh 996-1010.
And it formats the numbers and uh if I want to, I can just keep dialing, let’s say it’s a European number, and the numbers just keep getting smaller, real simple.
Very simple to dial with the keypad.
Now let me show you visual voice mail. This is so cool.
This is a collaboration that we’ve done, which I’ll talk more about later, and uh it allows us to have random access voice mail.
Go directly to the voice mails we want.
So as an example, I come to my voice mail, and I say, oh, there’s one by Al Gore.
I wanna hear that one. I just push it. [Congratulatory message from Al Gore plays.]
[Sniff] [0:56:20]

Now, if I wanna call Al back right now, I can just push that call back button.
But I wanna listen to one from Tim Cook I’ve got here, so let me listen to Tim.
[Message plays with Joke about revenue]

Isn’t this awesome.
And so I’ve got voice mail how I wanna listen to it, when I wanna listen to it, in any order I wanna listen to it with visual voice mail. [0:56:49]
So that is a quick tour of the phone app.
Now what I wanna do is show you SMS texting.
So I just go to that SMS icon in the upper-left-hand corner and push it.
And I not only have SMS texting, but I have multiple sessions.
So I can be carrying on conversations with people, and every time I get a new message from them, I’ll be alerted to that, and go check it out.
So. As an example here, I’ve got Eddie Q and I’ve been carrying on a conversation with Eddie, and I just tap this, and here’s the conversation I’ve been carrying on right here, right. [0:57:22]
And if there’s a new message it will tell me.
And so there’s a new message from Phil, and uh let’s see the conversation was what: [0:57:27]

[SMS messages:]
Hey Steve
Hi
Still on for dinner tonight?
absolutely
your turn to pick
hmmm I pick Sushi Ran
how about 7 o clock tonight?
and I say, I can can just say, you know
sounds great

[0:57:37]

And I’ve got this little keyboard which is phenomenal.
It does error prot uh prevention and correction.
Not that I won’t make some, I probably will. [0:57:45]
But it’s actually really fast to type on. It’s faster than all these little plastic keyboards on all these smart phones.
So I can just say sounds great, see you there.
And I can send that. And there it is, right.
It’s that simple.
And when Phil messages me back, I’ll be alerted, I’ll see the dot, and I can just go pick up that conversation where it left off.
If I wanna send a message to Eddie I or Scott, I just push this and send a message and go.
It’s so simple.
So that’s SMS messaging, and uh you know again, you’ve seen the keyboard, it’s pretty awesome. We’ll come back to that a little bit later.

And the third app I wanna show you as part of the phone package is photos.[0:58:42]
You know, we have a two-megapixel camera built in, as I said. We also have the coolest photo management app uh ever, certainly on a mobile device, but I think maybe ever.
And uh so here’s uh here’s our photos. I’m going to go into our photo library, and this is our library and again, I can just scroll through photos here with my finger.
Pretty cool. Let me go to uh photo album, I’ll pick Italy, and I just uh, let’s start at the top.
And to go through pictures, I just swipe them. [0:59:09]
I can just swipe through my photo library. Oh There’s one that’s uh that’s landscape. I can just turn my device and take a look at it. Pretty cool, huh?
So.. Alright? So I can even swipe when I’m in landscape here.
Yeah? Isn’t this awesome?
The other thing I can do is uh I can take any of these pictures and uh I can make them bigger. And uh So let me go ahead and get the camera back up yeah there it is right there.
I can uh.. I can just take my fingers and I can, we call it the pinch, I can bring them closer together and move them further apart to make it bigger or smaller.
And So I can just move them further apart and stretch the image.
Isn’t that cool? [0:59:54]
I can move it around, and … isn’t that cool?
And now, now what I can do is I can uh pick to uh make this my uh wallpaper.
And of course, I could you know.. jigger it around then and just set the wallpaper, and now when I uh if I’m back at home and I go to sleep, when I wake up from here on out, until I reset it, that’s my wallpaper. [1:00:22]
Whenever I’m making a call, that’s what I’m gonna see. Boom.
There we go. So photos, SMS and the phone app. [1:00:31]
That is part of our phone package for iPhone.

[1:00:44] Get a call, again, really great call management features, just scroll through contacts with your finger.
All the information at your fingertips here.
Favorites, last century, visual voice mail.
Calendar, SMS texting, incredible photo app, the ability to just take any picture and make it your wallpaper.
It’s pretty unbelievable, and I think when you have a chance to get your hand on it, you’ll agree, we have reinvented the phone. OK. [1:01:23]

So, now, let’s take a look at an Internet communications device as part of iPhone.
So what’s this all about?
Well, we’ve got some real breakthroughs here.[1:01:41]
To start off with, we’ve got rich, html e-mail on iPhone.
The first time really rich e-mail on a mobile device. And it works with any IMAP or POP e-mail service. You got your favorite mail service, it’ll likely work with it. [1:01:59]
And it’s rich text e-mail.
We wanted the best web browser in the world on our phone, not a baby web browser or a WAP browser, a real Web browser, and we picked the best one in the world, Safari, and we have Safari running on iPhone.
It is the first fully usable html browser on a phone.

Third, we have Google Maps.
Maps, satellite images, directions and traffic. [1:02:34]
This is unbelievable, wait til you see it. We have widgets, starting off with weather and stocks. And this communicates with the Internet over EDGE and wi-fi.
And iPhone automatically detects wi-fi and switches seamlessly to.
You don’t have to manage the network. It just does the right thing.
Now, I wanna take a second and talk about email. we hook up to almost any IMAP or POP3 mail service. I just want to give you some examples. IMAP of course is the best because you can keep your folders and all your e-mail on the server and access it from anywhere.
uh Yahoo E.. Yahoo Mail is IMAP. Microsoft Exchange has an IMAP option. And obviously .Mac mail is IMAP, as well.
POP3, Google Gmail, AOL Mail, and most ISPs are POP3 e-mail. [1:03:27]

Now, I wanna take a minute and highlight one.
Yahoo Mail.
Yahoo Mail is the biggest mail service in the world.
They have over a quarter billion users.
Biggest e-mail service in the world, and today, we are announcing with Yahoo that they are going to provide free push IMAP e-mail to all iPhone customers. [1:03:51]
So, this isn’t just IMAP e-mail.
It is push IMAP e-mail. So when you get a message, it will push it right out to the phone for you. Same as a BlackBerry. Free IMAP push e-mail from Yahoo.
So we think this is a pretty big deal.
So what I’d like to do now is I’d like to show you:
Mail, Safari, Google Maps and widgets running on iPhone.
So let’s go see. [1:04:19]

So let’s go into mail.
Second icon from the left on the bottom there.
I just touch it with my finger, and boom, I’m there.
And so I’ve got an in-box here, and this is, by the way, running live on Yahoo IMAP e-mail.
This stuff is coming off a Yahoo server somewhere up in the cloud.
And uh so I can say James Vincent here sent me an e-mail.
And he’s a proud father.
And there we there we go. And I can just scroll here.
I’ve got in-line photos, rich text e-mail. there we go.
So let’s look at another one. Phil Schiller. [1:05:02]
She loved the gift.
Again, in-line photos, rich text, pretty nice.
Shopping list. [1:05:12] Again, rich text right here. Pretty cool.
Directions to Sushi Ran for tonight’s dinner.
Now, iPhone of course parses out phone numbers and as you can see there’s a phone number in blue.
I can just touch it, and boom, I’m gonna call this place.
I don’t really wanna call them so I’m going to end the call here.
But you get the idea.
And uh this last one uh, Ken Bereskin is uh one of our marketing folks.
He just returned from Antarctica. Ken’s a great photographer, and he took all these great photos of uh of penguins in Antarctica. [1:05:47]
It’s really cool. Look at this, it’s great. Right in your e-mail, right on your phone.
And if I want to – by the way – , I can uh look at my e-mail with a split view just like I do on my computer, and so I can select something here and just look at it down here if I want to peruse my messages real fast and just find that one message I was looking for.
But I actually like the full-screen view.
And of course, we have a standard in-box and drafts, and sent, and eh and and all sorts of folders you can put things in as well.
So it’s real e-mail, just like you’re used to uh on your computer, right here on your phone.
It’s extraordinary.
And again, free IMAP e-mail from Yahoo.[1:06:26]

Now, let me go ahead and just uh create an e-mail message.
Show you what that’s like.
So again, when I don’t need a keyboard it’s not there.
When I do, it’s there. I want to send a message to uh, let’s say, Phil.
I just type PH, and boom, Phil Schiller, it’s address completion and maybe I’ll send one to Scott Forrestal, as well, and there’s Scott right there, and uh let’s say the subject is uh dinner.
Dinner and uh.. uh. you know. oops.
See you tonight. Boom, and I just hit send.
Sends that e-mail, and we’re done.
So that is mail. Full desktop class e-mail running on a mobile device. [1:07:21]

Alright, now I wanna show you something incredible.
I wanna show you Safari running on a mobile device.
So let’s go to the Web, and here we are.
I’m gonna load in, rather than apple.com here, a.. a little uh.. more universal site.
I’m gonna load in the New York Times, it’s kind of a slow site because it’s got a lot of images, but here we are loading and we’re loading over wi-fi right now.
And rather than just give you a WAP version of the New York Times, rather than give you this wrapped version all around, we’re showing you the whole New York Times Web site, and there it is.
And Guess what I can do, I can just put this into landscape mode, and there it is right there.
And I can scroll here if I want.
Scroll up and down here. Still loading it in.
There we go. Or I can just get back like this. [1:08:19]
Now, this is really great and I can see the whole page but of course I can’t read it.
It’s a little too small. So I can get in with my fingers and pinch it but we have an optimization here. I can just double-tap on anything and it automatically fills up the screen with it.
And I can just scroll around like this and scroll over here and I can even make this text bigger if I want to, and there it is. [1:08:39]
Just double-tap again to get back to the full page. Isn’t this cool?
So I can just. Look at this.
There is the New York Times. And again, any article I want, boom, there we go.
Boom. Unbelievable.
Now, you can look at multiple Web pages as well. You can have multiple Web pages open. So I just push this button in the lower-right hand corner.
Shrinks it down, and I can add a new page if I want.
And uh I’ll go to uh Amazon here out of my bookmarks.
So let’s go to Amazon. And I love to go the DVD section of Amazon and see what DVDs are selling.
I like it especially when Disney’s are at the top.
Uh, [cough] And, uh so here’s Amazon coming, and even before the whole page is loaded on, I’m just going to double-tap on this, and.. and uh I’m gonna say let’s go to the DVD section here, and now it’s doing that.
And here we are. [1:09:51]
And there’s a section over here on the right hand side, right there, and these are the top sellers, updated hourly.
Oh look, Al’s Inconvenient Truth is number one.
Alright. And here’s all the other movies.
Grey’s Anatomy, I like that. Pirates of the Caribbean. Fantastic.
And so I’ve got this right here, and I can go back to the New York Times if I want.
You know. Zoom up to that picture so we can all see it.
And again, here isn’t this cool?
Just go over there and go back to this one.
I can get rid of them just by hitting the X. And there we go.
Isn’t that incredible? Safari.
You know, if you’ve ever used what’s called a Web browser on a mobile phone, you’ll know how incredible this is.
I hope you’ll never really know, because it’s it’s bad out there today, and this is a revolution of the first order, to really bring the real Internet to your phone.[1:10:57]

Let me show you something about widgets here.
uh Let’s go to stocks right now, i’m gonna load stock information off the Web, and uh just right onto the phone here.
Oh, look, Apple’s up!
That’s great! [1:11:13]
Well, I could look at different graphs here if I want to.
And uh that’s fantastic. Let’s look at the percentages here.
Oh, good. Good good. So I’ve got stocks right here, and uh I can go look at the weather.
Let’s see what uh what it’s like outside.
49 degrees, but it’s supposed to get to 61 today, so that’s good.
We’ll just stay in here until it warms up.
Now, I’ve got uh Paris right here. I can have as many of these as I want, so it’s nighttime in Paris. It’s actually warmer in Paris at night than it is here today.
Wow. Aspen, well, no snow til later in the week. [1:11:53]
And Hawaii. Oh, it’s raining, that’s not good.
Well, anyway, here’s four places. Hawaii, Aspen, Paris and San Francisco, and again, the weather widget. [1:12:06]

Now, to conclude with the Internet device section here, I wanna show you something truly remarkable, which is, Google Maps on iPhone.[1:12:18]
I hit our maps application here and it’s coming up.
And it shows us North America, and I’m gonna go to Moscone West.
That’s where we are right now.
And here we are. Boom.
That’s where we are. Now, what I’m gonna do, is I’m gonna go uh look for something.
I’m I’m gonna certainly want a cup of coffee afterwards, so I’m just gonna look for Starbucks, right?
Starbucks, so I’m gonna search for Starbucks, and sure enough, there’s all the Starbucks.
Now, I can get a list of Starbucks here, so I can pick that one if I want, and I can even go look at that Starbucks, and there it is, and let’s give em a call. [1:13:02]

[Good morning, Starbucks, how can I help you?]

Yes, I’d like to order 4,000 lattes to go, please.
No, just kidding, wrong number. Thank you. Bye-bye. OK. [1:13:25]

Now, I can zoom in by just again pinching if I want to.
Or I can just double click to zoom in, and uh I get just uh higher and higher resolution versions of the map.
So let’s go somewhere else here that I’ve got bookmarked.
And uh Let’s go to the Washington Monument.
And so here’s Washington, D.C, and I could uh just double-tap and uh I’m going in a little further here.
Just double-tapping in. [1:13:57]
And there’s the Washington Monument there, and I’ll double-tap in again.
And uh but now I wanna show you something else. Satellite images.
So I just hit this button called satellite down at the bottom. and It’s gonna replace the map with satellite images, there we go.
And uh I can just double-tap in, and double-tap in again.
And uh let’s it’s catching up to me.
There we go.
And let’s double-tap in again.
This is the Washington Monument.
There we go. Look at this.
I can see people down there.
Whoops, there we go.
Yep. Isn’t that incredible.[1:14:38]
Right on my phone! It’s unbelievable.
So let’s go, uh I’ve got another one, uh the Eiffel Tower, which is very cool.
I set this one uh to be uh, look at this, there’s the Eiffel tower.
There’s people at the Eiffel Tower you can see.
Look at that. isn’t that incredible.
And here, one last one I have to show you, the Colosseum in Rome. [1:14:59]
So again, here we are in Rome. That’s as far as we can go with the map, but we can go a little further with the satellite.
There’s the Colosseum. There’s the Roman Colosseum.
Satellite imagery, right on the phone.
Look at that. That’s the Colosseum. Unbelievable.
Right on the phone. What’d’ya you think? Isn’t that incredible? [1:15:27]

So, So, all these amazing things.
This is a breakthrough Internet communicator built right into iPhone.
The first rich html e-mail on a phone.
The first real Web browser on a phone.
Best version of Google Maps on the planet, widgets, and all with Edge and wi-fi networking. We’re very, very happy with this. [1:15:56]
Again, e-mail. Push e-mail IMAP free Yahoo and almost any other IMAP and POP mail service you wanna hook up to.
Incredible new technology for entering text.
Far better than we’ve seen on phones before.
A real browser on the phone. We can see real Web pages in portrait or landscape.
We can zoom in on what we wanna take a look at more closely.
Google Maps and widgets.
It’s the Internet in your pockets for the first time ever.
Now, you can’t you can’t really think about the Internet, of course, without thinking about Google, right?
And for Google, what we have on our phone, working with them is of course Google search, we have that built right into the browser.
Just type what you want, hit Google and you’re off.
And Google Maps. We’ve been working very closely with them to make this all happen.
We’re thrilled with the results, and it’s my pleasure now to introduce Dr. Eric Schmidt, Google’s CEO. [1:17:05]

[1:17:07] [Eric Schmidt] [1:19:47]

As a boardmember you’ll get one of the first ones. [1:19:51]

Ok, now, you also can’t think about the Internet without thinking about Yahoo.
And again on the phone, we’ve got Yahoo Search built right in, you can select which one you wanna use.
Just type in something, hit that Yahoo button and boom, you’re off.
And of course, we also have Yahoo IMAP e-mail services.
And so, it is my great pleasure to introduce Jerry Yang, co-founder and chief Yahoo. Jerry. [1:20:26]

[Jerry says, “congrats”]
thank you
[Jerry says, “thank you”]

[1:20:38]
[Jerry Yang]
[1:22:49]

[1:22:56] Thanks. You know, it’s been great having the two greatest companies on the Web right down the block.
Google and Yahoo.
And we’ve been able to work with these guys really closely, and it’s been an incredible pleasure to work on this great technology and bring it to everybody in iPhone.
So thank you guys so much. You’ve really helped us put the Internet in your pocket. [1:23:18]

[1:23:20]
So, Internet communicator, an iPod and a phone.
Let’s put them all together and see what you can do in a real-life scenario.
So, let’s take a look.
I’m uh I wanna listen to some music, so I’m gonna go into my iPod here and uh let’s see uh, in artists, I wanna listen to uh, oh, maybe Red Hot Chili Peppers, I love those guys.
And so I’m listening to a song of theirs. [1:23:57]
[1:23:58] [music plays]
And let’s see what happens when I get a phone call. [1:24:06]
Music fades out. Screen changes. Got a phone call coming in.
So I can ignore it, but I think I’m gonna answer it.
So I’ll answer it. Howdy. Hi Phil.
Now it knows who Phil is cause he is in my address book.
So it puts his little picture here and everything up there. Uh Hi Phil Listen I’m kind of busy right now. What can I do for you?

[Schiller discussion.]

Oh, OK, uh hold on just a sec.
So I push the home button here, down at the bottom on my – go home right here, and I’m still on the call.
You can see the uh the phone thing flashing right there on the lower left.
And I go into photos and now I’m in photos and again you can see the bar across the top, the green bar, I can just touch that to return to the call.
And uh Phil wants a photo that uh he wanted to use it for his screensaver, it was one of the ones that was taken in Hawaii, I think it was this one.
Yep, there it is. So you want me to mail this to you, Phil?
Alright, So I again I just go down here and push this button, and rather than use it as wallpaper, I’m going to e-mail it.
And uh So watch what happens now.
It shrinks it a little bit, and then a compose windows will come up right behind it. [1:25:21]
There we go. And uh I will uh just tap in the to field and send this to Phil here, Phil Schiller there we go.
And uh the e-mail is there, yep, it’s there, and I’m just gonna send it.
Hey, Phil, that should be on its way right now. [1:25:36]

Yup, Any else?
uhm Let me go check it out.
I Got uh.. I think I’ve got Fandango in my uh bookmarks here.
And uh, Yes, I do. Let’s go to Fandango, figure out what movies are playing.

Yeah, ok. Here is fandango let’s just double tap and here is the movies playing.
yep. How about we go see uh “night at the museum”? I haven’t seen that yet. [1:26:15]
Great, alrighty. Hey, take care Phil.
now what I’m gonna do is: To go back to my uh call I just touch the top here, and I’m back at my call, and I’m just gonna go ahead and end the call.
And uh What happens now?
Back in my music.
So, this is what it’s like when you put it all together. [1:26:50]
iPhone. Today Apple is reinventing the phone. [1:26:56]

Now how does this stack up.
Let’s go back to to these guys.
Let’s take a look.
Well, these are their these are their home screens.
And again, as you recall, this is iPhone’s home screen.
uhm this this is what their contacts look like.
This is what iPhone’s contacts look like, and again, you just pick one and you see everything about that person, all the information you have. [1:27:23]
This is what mail looks like on these smart phones.
Again this what mail looks like on iPhone.
You have rich, html, rich text e-mail.
This is what calendars look like on these guys.
This is what calendars look like on iPhone.
This is what the Web looks like, and we tried to make it look as good as we could on these.
It usually looks worse and this is what you get, and of course, this is what you get on iPhone, and you can zoom in and see anything you want.
And this is what you get for music players, nobody really uses them much.
Uh and this is what you get on iPhone.
So after today, I don’t think anyone is gonna look at these phones quite the same way again.[1:28:11]

Now let me tell you about some accessories we’ve got for iPhone.
Got some great stereo headphones we’re gonna be shipping.
And uh they’ve got a little addition to them, which is this little thing right over here.
It’s a microphone and a switch, so you can talk, uh you have them in there, you can get a call and just talk.
they’ve Beautiful reception on the microphone. And just push it together to answer a call or hang up on a call.
And So you can be wearing them and..
It just dangles right there and picks up your voice beautifully.
And we also have a Bluetooth accessory headset that we’re gonna be shipping and there it is right there.
It’s incredibly small and uh just to let you see what it looks like, it’s got one button on the top for answering and hanging up a phone call.
You never have to turn it off or on. It just goes to sleep.
It automatically pairs with iPhone so you don’t have to worry about pairing.
It’s really simple. And uh it’s very tiny.
This is what it looks like in-ear. It’s just beautiful.
It’s the coolest one that we’ve ever seen.
So Bluetooth headset coming as well.[1:29:12]

Battery life. There’s a lot of stuff.
A lot of these phones, a lot of these smart phones have pretty pretty low battery lives.
We’ve managed to get five hours of battery, and that’s for talk time, video or browsing.
Five hours of battery life, and 16 hours of audio playback.
So that’s dramatically better than any of these smart phones.
There is a tremendous amount of high technology in iPhone.
We’ve been pushing the state of the art in every facet of this design.
So lemme just talk a little bit about it here.
We’ve got the multi-touch screen. A first.
Miniaturization, more than we’ve done before.
A lot of custom silicon.
Tremendous power management.
OSX[cough] inside a mobile device.
Featherweight precision enclosures.
Three advanced sensors.
Desktop class applications, and of course, the widescreen video iPod.
We’ve been innovating like crazy for the last few years on this, and we filed for over 200 patents for all the inventions in iPhone, and we intend to protect them. [1:30:35]
So, a lot of high technology.
I think we’re advancing the state of the art in every aspect of this design.
So iPhone is like having your life in your pocket. It’s the ultimate digital device. [1:30:53]

So what should we price it at?
Well, what do these things normally cost?
An iPod, the most popular iPod, $199 for 4 gig nano.
What’s a smart phone cost?
Well, they say you get the phone and some of the Internet with it, although that’s questionable. But they cost somewhere around $299. You can get them for $199. Palm just introduced one at $399 yesterday, so they generally average about $299 with a two-year contract. [01:31:28]
Now, these phones sort of do music but nobody uses them for music because they’re not very good and so they end up buying an iPod to go with the phone.
We know, we sell the iPod. [01:31:36]
And so people spend $499 on this combination.
What should we charge for iPhone? [01:31:46]
Cause iPhone has got a lot more than this stuff, right.
It’s got video. Real video.
It’s got wha… this beautiful gorgeous wide screen.
It’s got multi-touch user interface. It’s got wi-fi.
It’s got a real browser. It’s got html e-mail.
It’s got coverflow and on and on and on.
And this stuff would normally cost hundreds of dollars.
So how much more than $499 should we price iPhone? [01:32:15]
Well, we thought long and hard about it, because iPhone just does so much stuff.
So much better experience on call, on managing your contacts, and visual voice mail.
Random access voice mail for the first time.
Texting and e-mail and real browser and Google Maps.
Tremendous iPod and cover flow and video.
What should we price this thing at?
Well, for a 4 gigabyte model, we’re gonna price it at that same $499. No premium whatsoever. $499.
And we’re gonna have an 8 gigabyte model for just $599. [1:32:58]
So we’re gonna price it starting at $499.
Now, when’s its gonna be available?
We’re gonna be shipping these in June. Yeah, June.
We’re announcing it today because with products like this we gotta go and get FCC approval which takes a few months, and we thought it would be better if we introduced this rather than ask the FCC introduce… to to introduce it for us. [1:33:23]
So here we are, and we’re gonna be shipping it in June in the U.S.
We’re going to Europe hopefully by the fourth calendar quarter of this year.
And Asia in 2008.
So June, in just a few months, we’ll be shipping in the U.S.
And when we do, our partner is gonna be Cingular.
We’ve chosen Cingular. They are they are the best and most popular network in the country.
58 million subscribers. They are number one. [1:33:55]
And they’re gonna be our exclusive partner in the U.S.
Now, it’s a unique partnership though.
We’re not just gonna be selling phones and services together.
We’re gonna be doing innovation together.
We worked with Cingular on visual voice mail.
Because it’s an innovation that requires both innovation on the phone and in the network.
You can’t do it in just one place.
You have to do it in both places and collaborate.
And so visual voice mail is the first fruit of this collaboration, and you will see more.
And when we start shipping in June, we will be selling iPhone through our own stores, and through Cingular stores. [1:34:31]
And it’s my pleasure to introduce the CEO of Cingular, Stan Sigman.

Thank you. Welcome friend.
[1:34:57]
[Sigman]
[1:40:30]

[1:40:43] You know, as Stan said we started working together at about 2 years ago and we come from pretty different worlds.
The telecommunications industry, the computer industry and of course music with the iPod.
And, uh and yet we have worked wonderfully together and we love these guys.
Ad we think its… we’re gonna bring some great stuff to the market over the years together. [1:41:04]

So, Let’s take a look at uh, at this market, and how big it is.
My clicker’s not working.
Oh. There it is.
Maybe it is working. So how big is this market, well let’s take a look.
No.
Alrighty.
Clicker is not working[with loud voice].
Alright. They’re scrambling backstage right now.

You know, when I was in high school.
Steve Wozniak and I, m.. mostly Steve, uh made this little device called the TV jammer.
And it, was, it was this little oscillator that put out frequencies that would screw up the TV.
And Woz would have it in his pocket, and we’d go into like a dorm at Berkeley where he was going to school and a bunch of folks was watching like Star Trek and he’d screw up the TV, and somebody’d go up to fix it, and and just as they had their foot off the ground, he’d turn it back on.
And If they put their foot back on the ground he’d screw up the TV again.
And within five minutes he’d have somebody like this for the rest of the Star Trek episode. [1:42:29]

Ok. So maybe it’s working now, maybe they’re gonna have to click ’em for me. [1:42:32]

So game consoles.
26 million game consoles were sold in 2006 worldwide, actually a little smaller than you’d think. It’s not such a big market.
Digital cameras dwarfed it at 94 million.
MP3 players 135 million. And PCs, about 209.
Mobile phones, just about a billion last year, worldwide.
So what does this tell you?
What this tells you is, that 1 percent market share equals 10 million units.
This is a giant market.
If you just One percent market share, you’re gonna sell 10 million phones.
And this is exactly what we’re gonna try to do in 2008, our first full year in the market, is grab 1 percent market share and go from there.
So we’re gonna enter a very competitive market, lotta players, we think we’re gonna have the best product in the world, and we’re gonna go for it and see if we can get 1 percent market share, 10 million units in 2008, and go from there.[1:43:33]

So, today, we’ve added to the Mac and the iPod.
We’ve added Apple TV and now iPhone.
And you know, the Mac is the only one that you think really of as a computer. Right?
And so we’ve thought about this and we thought, you know, maybe our name should reflect this a little bit more than it does.
So we’re announcing today we’re dropping the computer from our name, and from this day forward, we’re gonna be known as Apple Incorporated, to reflect the product mix that we have today. [1:44:14]
And I didn’t sleep a wink last night.
And uh I was so excited about today, because we’ve been so lucky at Apple.
We’ve had some real revolutionary products.
The Mac in 1984 is an experience that those of us that were there will never forget.
And I don’t think the world will forget it either.
The iPod in 2001 changed everything about music, and we’re gonna do it again with the iPhone in 2007.
We’re very excited about this.
You know, there’s an old Wayne Gretzky quote that I love. [1:45:03]
I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been.
And we’ve always tried to do that at Apple.
Since the very very beginning.
And we always will. So thank you very very much for being a part of this.[1:45:20]

Now

thanks

[Music]

Thank you very much. [1:46:50]

Thank you. It’s uh….

I could ask you, uh I wanna highlight the folks here who worked on this products.
I could ask them to sit down, but you wouldn’t see them.
So if we all could sit down, I could ask them to stand stand up.
Could all the folks around here, who worked on these products stand up?

Let’s get ’em a round of applause.

There’s a lot of them back in Cuptertino as well, so thank you guys so much.

And I also can’t leave without thanking the families.
All of our families.
They haven’t seen a lot of us, ‘specially in the last 6 months.
And uh, as I’ve said said often, you know, without the support of our families, we couldn’t do what we do.

We get to do this amazing work and uh they
they understand when we’re not home for dinner on time and.
when commitments we’ve made we can’t keep, cause we gotta be be in the lab, working on something cause the intro is coming up.
And uh you don’t know how much we need you and appreciate you.
So thank you.

So we’ve got a really special treat today.
uhm We don’t have a lot of traditions at Apple,
outside of making great products.
But One of them is that John Mayer helped us at almost every MacWorld in the last several years.
And uh uh John Agreed to come and perform for us today
John’s a three time a grammy winner.

And This year he’s been nominated for 5 Grammy Awards.
Including album of the year for Continuum.

Best rock album for Try.

Best solo vocal performance for Route 66 from the movie Cars

The other you can read up there.

Its great. We are so lucky to have him.

It is our pleasure to welcome John Mayer.

[John Mayer plays]

so thank you all very much for coming this morning
and uh, we’ll see you all soon
thanks

The field that we decided to do it in--the choice we made--was music. Now, why music? Well, we love music. And it’s always good to do something you love. More importantly, music’s a part of everyone’s life. Everyone. Music’s been around forever. It will always be around. This is not a speculative market. And, because it’s a part of everyone’s life, it’s a very large target market. All around the world. It knows no boundaries.

But, interestingly enough, in this whole new digital music revolution, there is no market leader. There are small companies, like Creative and SONICblue, and then there’s some large companies like Sony that haven’t had a hit yet. They haven’t found the recipe. No one has really found the recipe yet for digital music. And we think not only can we find the recipe, but the Apple brand is going to be fantastic, because people trust the Apple brand to get their great digital electronics from.

So, let’s look at portable music. Let’s look at the landscape. The first thing, if you want to listen to music portably, you can go out and buy a CD player, right? That’s one way to go. About 10 to 15 songs. Or you can buy a Flash Player--you can go out and buy one of those. You can buy an MP3 CD player, or you can buy a hard disk space jukebox player. And these are the four choices for portable music right now. So, let’s take a look at each one of those.

A CD player costs about $75, holds 10-15 songs on a CD, that’s about $5 a song. You go buy a Flash Player, you pay about double that--about $150, holds the same 10-15 songs, or about $10 a song. You can go buy an MP3 CD player, and an MP3 CD, which you can burn on your computer, costs about $150, but holds 150 songs. So you get down to $1 a song. Or, you can go buy a hard drive jukebox player for about $300, it holds about 1,000 songs, and costs about 30 cents a song.

So, we looked at this and studied all these and that is where we want to be. That is where we want to be. And we are introducing a product today that takes us exactly there, and that product is called iPod.

iMac. iBook. iPod.

What is iPod? iPod is an MP3 music player, has CD quality music, and it plays all of the popular open formats of digital music: MP3, MP3 Variable Bit Rate, WAV, and AIFF. But the biggest thing about iPod is it holds 1000 songs. Now, this is a quantum leap because for most people, it’s their entire music library. This is huge.

How many times have you gone on the road with a CD player and said, “Oh, God--I didn’t bring the CD I wanted to listen to.” To have your whole music library with you at all times is a quantum leap in listening to music.

The coolest thing about iPod is that your entire music library fits in your pocket. OK? You can take your whole music library with you, right in your pocket. Never before possible. So that’s iPod.

There are three major breakthroughs in iPod. Let’s take a look at each one of them. The first one is, it’s ultra-portable. So, if we’re going to keep 1000 songs on iPod, and it fits in your pocket, how do we do this? How do we possibly do this? Well, we start start off with an ultra-thin hard drive. We’ve got a 1.8” diameter hard drive that’s 0.2” thick. Super thin!

And that hard drive is 5 gigabytes in capacity. Five gigabytes, which holds 1000 songs at 160 kilobit rate, which is a very high-quality rate of MP3 compression. Very high-quality. A thousand songs on this 5 gigabyte drive. And we’ve built in 20 minute skip protection. That’s not 20 seconds; 20 minute skip protection. So you can take iPod bicycling, mountain climbing, jogging--you name it--and you’re not going to skip a beat.

So, we’ve got this 5 gigabyte drive that holds 1000 songs. How do we get the 1000 songs on the iPod? We don’t want to wait, so we’ve built in FireWire. Now, Apple, as you know, invented FireWire on every computer we make. It’s built into iPod. It’s the first and only music player with FireWire.

Why? Because it’s fast. You can download an entire CD into iPod in 5 to 10 seconds. An entire CD. So, let’s take a look at how it compares with USB. 5 to 10 seconds for FireWire to load a CD. On a USB player, you’re talking 5 minutes. Let’s talk about 1000 songs now. On iPod with FireWire, it is under 10 minutes, on a USB player, it is 5 hours. Can you imagine that? You get your USB player, you want to load 1000 songs, and you have to watch it for 5 hours while it loads the songs.

Under 10 minutes with iPod. It’s 30 times faster than any other MP3 player. So, huge win. Now, it doesn’t matter how many songs you have with you if your battery’s dead, right? So we have built in an extraordinary battery into iPod. Ten hours of battery life. And that is 10 hours of continuous music. We’re using a rechargeable lithium-polymer battery. This is a more advanced battery than we even use in our portable computers. It’s the most advanced battery we’ve ever shipped. And you can recharge this 10-hour battery in one hour, to 80% of its capacity, on a fast charge. One hour.

But maybe the coolest thing is that--you know FireWire--the FireWire cable carries all the data from the Mac to iPod? The FireWire also has power on it. And so, when you plug in to your Mac, it actually charges the iPod over that single FireWire cable. So you don’t have another charging cable to worry about. It charges over FireWire every time you plug into your Mac. Now you might say, “Well, what happens if I’m on the road with my iPod and I didn’t bring my Mac with me, and my battery’s running low? What do I do?” Well, we’ve got a really cool charger that ships as part of iPod, too, and this charger has a FireWire port on it. So you take your FireWire cable and just plug it right into the charger and plug it into the outlet, and charge iPod wherever you happen to be where there’s an outlet. So, ten hours of continuous music playback with the remarkable new battery technology.

Now, you might be saying, “Well, this is cool, this is cool but, you know, I’ve got a big hard disc in my portable--let’s say my iBook--I’m running iTunes, I’m really happy. I’ve got FireWire on my iBook. I don’t quite get 10 hours of battery life, but iBook’s got better battery life than any other consumer portable, so what’s so special about iPod here?”

It’s ultra-portable. An iBook is really portable, but this is ultra-portable. And let me show you what I mean. iPod is the size of a deck of cards. A deck of cards. It is 2.4” wide, it is 4.0” tall, and it is barely over three-quarters of an inch thick. This is tiny. It also only weighs 6.5 ounces. That is lighter than most of the cell phones you have in your pockets right now.

So, this is what’s so remarkable about iPod: it is ultra portable. We didn’t stop there. iPod has got Apple design. We’ve got one of the best design teams in the world, and they have done a remarkable job. Let me show you. This is what iPod looks from the side. Again, about ¾ of an inch thick. I’m going to show you the back first, because I’m in love with it. It’s stainless steel. It’s really, really durable. It’s beautiful. And this is what the front of it looks like: BOOM. That’s iPod. I happen to have one in my pocket, my friends. There it is, right there.

So, this amazing little device holds 1000 songs and it goes right in my pocket.

There have only been two milestone products in our industry: the Apple II in 1977 and the IBM PC in 1981. Today, one year after Lisa, we are introducing the third industry milestone product: Macintosh.

Many of us have been working on Macintosh for over two years now. And it has turned out insanely great. We are introducing Macintosh at a mainstream price point of $2,495. And you can go see a Macintosh in any one of our fifteen hundred dealers in America today.

I want to briefly cover some of the innovations in Macintosh. The first one is, we’ve pulled Lisa technology down to a mainstream price point, with its radical ease-of-use, mouse, windows, icons, pull-down menus, point, click, cut and paste. We’ve managed to find a way to pull that down to a $2,495 price point.

Macintosh, to accomplish this, uses a 68000 microprocessor, the same 32 bit microprocessor used in Lisa. It’s necessary for Lisa technology, and it eats 8088s for breakfast.

Macintosh comes with 192k bytes of memory. Sixty-four k bytes of ROM contains the entire operating system, the whole graphics foundation, and the entire user interface--all contained in ROM. There’s 128k bytes of RAM.

Just as the 5 ¼-inch floppy disk drive was an innovation in the 70s, the 3.5-inch disk drive will be the disk of the 80s. It is far safer, and we’re storing over 400k bytes of information on one side of a disk that can be put in your pocket.

Macintosh comes with two built-in serial ports, the RS232, the RS422 and an incredible thing called Apple Bus Interconnect.

Macintosh has four-voice sound and speech built in.

And it communicates with you on a high-definition, super crisp, bitmap 9-inch, black-and-white screen, which has over twice the number of dots on its screen of any current-generation personal computer. You have to see this display to believe it--it’s incredible.

And all of this power fits in a box that is one-third the size and weight on an IBM PC.

And we’re introducing a family of products with Macintosh: the image writer printer, an external disk drive, a modem, a numeric keypad, a Macintosh carrying case, and a security kit so your Macintosh won’t go anywhere without you.

You’ve just seen some pictures of Macintosh. Now I’d like to show you Macintosh in person. All of the images you are about to see on the large screen will be generated by what’s in that bag.

[Jobs walks over, pulls computer out of bag and displays it for the crowd to applause. He then pulls a 3.5” disk from inside coat pocket and inserts it, again to applause. Lights dim for presentation.]

Now, we’ve done a lot of talking about Macintosh recently, but today, for the first time ever, I’d like to have Macintosh speak for itself.

[Macintosh speaks, introduces Jobs. The crowd erupts into a standing ovation.]

The team that developed Macintosh is sitting up here in the first five rows, and they must feel awfully good right now.

Macintosh is targeted at two primary markets: the first is the 25 million knowledge workers who sit behind desks, and particularly those in medium and small size businesses; and the second market is the college worker. We thank that’s the knowledge worker of tomorrow, and there are over 11 million college students in America alone. The telephone was really the first and only really desktop appliance, and we think Macintosh can become the second desktop appliance for these tens of millions of people. Because of the 235 people [sic] in America, only a fraction know how to use a computer. Macintosh is for the rest of us. And we need to communicate this message to those knowledge workers and college workers. And to do that, we are launching the largest advertising campaign in Apple’s history, which will premiere on the Winter Olympics on February sixth. And I’d like to show you five commercials now.

Those ads were prepared by Chiat\Day, our agency, the same people that did “1984.”

Over 70% of all the computers used in education in this country are Apples. And we feel pretty good about that, we care a lot about the educational process, and it reflects a bit about what our values are as a corporation. And it’s also an incredible leverage point for the Apple II. Now, most of those are in kindergarten through 12th grade. A year ago, we went in search of about half a dozen colleges that would use a large number of personal computers in 1984, large being at least a thousand campus-wide. We didn’t find half a dozen--we found two dozen. And today I’m really pleased to announce the Apple University Consortium, formed of those 24 colleges and universities around this country.

They’re the opinion leaders, they’re the Ivy League, and they collectively have placed orders for more than $50 million today of Apple 32 supermicros. And this is the list of colleges. Every major university in this country that’s going to be using a large number of personal computers next year chose Macintoshes and Lisas. And a ton of them are using courseware development, and all of them are leading the way for the other 3,000 colleges in America. And they are telling us that Macintosh is the ideal campus computer. And we’re really excited about this program.

Now, when we first designed the Apple II in a garage, what most people don’t know is, we designed it to be built in a garage. We thought that if we every built 50 in a month we’d be doing great. Now, we’ve obviously exceeded our expectations by over 2,000 times in the month of December, but never before Macintosh has a personal computer been designed from the start to be built in the millions. From day one on Macintosh, we kept manufacturability in mind and have designed it to be the first personal computer to be built in the millions.

I want to take you very briefly through how our Macintosh goes together. We first take the front bezel, the most precisely tooled piece of plastic that Apple has ever manufactured, and to it we affix a stamped sheet metal part and the cathode ray tube. Next, we attach the single board containing the entire high-definition video electronics and the entire lightweight switching-type power supply. Next, the 3.5” disk drive is attached, followed by a shield around the disk drive. Next, the single ten inch by ten inch board containing the entire 32 bit digital graphics processing computer is slid in to the metal infrastructure, and the cables are attached. And with four screws the rear case is then put on, and the Macintosh is tilted up for the first time and ready to go into a 24-hour automated burn-in, after which the keyboard and the mouse are added. And the challenge for us is to do this once every 27 seconds.

Now, to do this, in addition to designing the machine, in the last year and a half we have designed and built the machine to build the machines. We’ve invested over $20 million to build the computer industry’s first automated factory in Fremont, California, overlooking Ford and GM. The factory’s based on the concepts of just-in-time delivery, of zero-defect parts, and it’s a manufacturing process which allows extremely high-volume production of extremely high-quality products. And were it not for this shareholders meeting today, we’d be building over 500 Macintoshes.

Macintosh was developed by a small team of incredibly talented artists. And the rest of Apple supported this core group of about 100 people, and they were able to able leverage the resources of a billion-dollar corporation to create their dream. And I have never in my life had the privilege of working with such fine and talented people. The experience of Macintosh has changed all of our lives who had the privilege of working on it for the last few years. And we think it’s gonna change the millions of people who buy them in the next few years.

We made a multimedia show, really for ourselves, that I want to show to you now that captures some of the spirit of this group. And I’d like to show it to you now.

[Presentation]

Now, Macintosh was one of the worst kept secrets in the world. But one of the best kept secrets in the world is that we’re not introducing just one stand-alone product today. Today we’re introducing a family of four new 32-bit products. We introduced Lisa one year ago, and it set the technical direction for the entire industry with its mouse, windows, icons. We’re seeing imitations: Visi On, MS Windows, even a rumored IBM windowing package in the works. But today we’re introducing three new Lisas.

The first is Lisa 2, with 512k bytes of RAM and a 3.5” disk for $3,495. The second new Lisa is Lisa 2/5, which has a 5 megabyte profile Winchester disk drive for $4,495. And the third new Lisa is Lisa 2/10. It has a built-in 10 megabyte Winchester disk drive, which sits right above the floppy. And it’s priced at $5,495.

Now, all of these new Lisas use the 3.5” floppy disk drive that is compatible with Macintosh. And there is an upgrade for all existing Lisa owners upgrade their Lisa 1 to a Lisa 2/5 absolutely free.

But perhaps the biggest news will be that all three new Lisas are 100% Macintosh software compatible. Now, together these four workstations form the foundation of the Apple 32 supermicros, a family of compatible products based on Lisa technology and 32 bit architecture. And these four workstations span an incredible price performance range, with Macintosh as the key building block at $2,495 to Lisa 2/10, the flagship in performance at $5,495.

We didn’t start Apple to build adequate products. And we didn’t start Apple to simply put computers on the desks of computer-trained professionals to connect to IBM mainframes. What we wanted to do and what we want to do now is to build great personal computers and bring them to tens of millions of people. Never before has the time been riper, and never before, with a radically easier to use family of 32-bit products, have we been closer to doing just that.

Thank you very much.

Hmm, I’ll give you my point of view on it. I remember reading a magazine article a long time ago when I was twelve years ago maybe, in I think it was Scientific American. I’m not sure. And the article proposed to measure the efficiency of locomotion for lots of species on planet earth to see which species was the most efficient at getting from point A to point B. And they measured the kilocalories that each one expended. So they ranked them all and I remember that the Condor won – the Condor was the most efficient at getting from point A to point B. And humankind, the crown of creation came in with a rather unimpressive showing about a third of the way down the list. So that didn’t look so great.

But let me do this over again, because I am just not sure.

I remember reading an article when I was about twelve years old. I think it might have been Scientific American where they measured the efficiency of locomotion for all these species on planet earth. How many kilocalories did they expend to get from point A to point B? And the Condor 1 came in at the top of the list, surpassed everything else. And humans came in about a third of the way down the list which was not such a great showing for the crown of creation. And — but somebody there had the imagination to test the efficiency of a human riding a bicycle. A human riding a bicycle blew away the Condor, all the way off the top of the list. And it made a really big impression on me that we humans are tool builders. And that we can fashion tools that amplify these inherent abilities that we have to spectacular magnitudes. And so for me, a computer has always been a bicycle of the mind. Something that takes us far beyond our inherent abilities.

And I think we’re just at the early stages of this tool. Very early stages. And we’ve come only a very short distance. And it’s still in its formation, but already we’ve seen enormous changes. I think that’s nothing compared to what’s coming in the next hundred years.

Let me answer that question a slightly different way. There have been, if you look at why the majority of people have bought these things so far, there have been two real explosions that have propelled the industry forward. The first one really happened in 1977. And it was the spreadsheets. I remember when Dan Fylstra who ran the company that marketed the first spreadsheet, walked into my office at Apple one day and pulled out this disk from his vest pocket and said, “I have this incredible new program. I call it a visual calculator.” And it became VisiCalc. And that’s what really drove, propelled the Apple to…to the success it achieved more than any other single event. And with the invention of Lotus 123, and I think it was 1982, that’s what really propelled the IBM PC to the level of success that it achieved. So that was the first explosion was the spreadsheet.

The second really big explosion in our industry has been desktop publishing. Happened in 1985 with the Macintosh and the LaserWriter printer. And at that point people could start to do on their desktops things that only typesetters and printers could do prior to that. And that’s been a very big revolution in publishing. And those are really, those two explosions have been the only two real major revolutions which have caused a lot of people to buy these things and use them.

The third one is starting to happen now. And the third one is let’s do for human to human communication what spreadsheets did for financial planning and what desktop publishing did for publishing. Let’s revolutionize it using these desktop devices. And we’re already starting to see the signs of that. As an example in an organization, we’re starting to see that as business conditions change faster and faster with each year, we cannot change our management hierarchical organization very fast relative to the changing business conditions. We can’t have somebody working for a new boss every week. We also can’t change our geographic organization very fast. As a matter of fact even slower than the management one. We can’t be moving people around the country every week. But we can change an electronic organization like that. And what’s starting to happen is as we start to link these computers together with sophisticated networks and great user interfaces, we’re starting to be able to create clusters of people working on a common task in a.. literally in fifteen minutes worth of setup. And these fifteen people can work together extremely efficiently no matter where they are geographically. And no matter who they work for hierarchically. And these organizations can live for as long as they’re needed and then vanish. And we’re finding we can reorganize our companies electronically very rapidly. And that’s the only type of organization that can begin to keep pace with the changing business conditions.

And I believe that this collaborative model has existed in higher education for a long time. But we’re starting to see it applied into the commercial world as well. And this is going to be the third major revolution that these desktop computers provide is revolutionizing human to human communication in group work. We call it interpersonal computing. In the 1980s, we did personal computing. And now we’re going to extend that as we network these things to interpersonal computing.

I first saw my first computer when I was twelve. I saw my first computer when I was twelve. And it was at NASA. We had a local NASA center nearby. And it was a terminal, which was connected to a big computer somewhere and I got a timesharing account on it. And I was fascinated by this thing. And I saw my second computer a few years later which was really the first desktop computer ever made. It was made by Hewlett Packard. It was called the 9100-A. And it ran a language called BASIC. And it was very large. It had a very small cathode ray tube on it for display. And I got a chance to play with one of those maybe in 1968 or ‘69. And spent every spare moment I had trying to write programs for it. I was so fascinated by this. And so I was probably fairly lucky. And then my introduction to computers very rapidly moved from a terminal to within maybe twelve months or so, actually seeing one of the first, probably the first desktop computer ever…ever really produced. And so my point of view never really changed from being able to get my arms around it even though my arms probably didn’t quite fit around that first one.

Well, though the analogy is nowhere perfect and certainly one needs to factor out the environmental concerns of the analogy as well. There is a lot to be said for comparing it to going from trains, from passenger trains to automobiles. And the advent of the automobile gave us a personal freedom of transportation. In the same way the advent of the computer gave us the ability to start to use computers without having to convince other people that we needed to use computers. And the biggest effect of the personal computer revolution has been to allow millions and millions of people to experience computers themselves decades before they ever would have in the old paradigm. And to allow them to participate in the making of choices and controlling their own destiny using these tools.

But it has created problems. And the largest problems are that now that we have all these very powerful tools, we’re still islands and we’re still not really connecting these people using these powerful tools together. And that’s really been the challenge of the last few years and the next several years is how to connect these things back together so that we can rebuild a fabric of these things rather than just individual points f light if you will. And get the benefit of both, the passenger train and the automobile.

Everything that we’ve done in our — everything I’ve done with computers in my life has been along pretty much a single vector. And NeXT is just one more point on that same vector. Ah in this case what we observed was that the computing power we could give to an individual was an order magnitude more than the PCs we’re giving. In the sense that people want to do many things at once and you really need true multi tasking. We really did want to start to network these things together in very sophisticated networks. So the technology to build that in became available. And most important we saw a way to build a software system that was about ten times as powerful than any PC. And where new software could be created in a fourth of the time.

So we spent four years with fifty to hundred of the best software people we could find building this new software system. And it’s turned out beautifully.
It’s not so much different than everything I’ve ever done in my life with computers starting with the Apple II and the Macintosh, and now NeXT which is if you believe that these are the most incredible tools we’ve ever built which I do, then the more powerful tool we can give to people, the more they can do with it. And in this case we found a way to do two or three things that were real breakthroughs.

Number one was to put a much more powerful computer in front of people for about the same price as a PC. The second was to integrate that networking into the computer so we can begin to make this NeXT revolution within a personal computing. And the PCs so far have not been able to do that very well. And the third thing, and maybe the most important was to create a whole new software architecture from the ground up that lets us build these new types of applications and lets them, lets us build them in 25 percent of the time that it normally takes to do on a PC. So we spent four years with 50 to a hundred of the best software people that I know creating a whole new software platform from the ground up. And the way our industry works is that you create this platform software first and then you go out and you get people to write new applications on top of it. Well the height that these new applications can soar is…is enabled or limited by the 8platform software. And there’s only been three systems that have ever been successful in the whole history of desktop computing and that was the Apple IIs platform software of which there wasn’t too much. The IBM PC and Macintosh. So we’re attempting to create the fourth platform software standard and hopefully we’ll succeed because it will allow these applications to be written which far far exceed in capacity what can be done in today’s machines.
I don’t know. But what I have seen is I’ve seen interpersonal computing happening at our own company. Or maybe the best way to put it is, I remember when the first spreadsheet came out. I saw it fly through Apple as well as other companies. And when we invented desktop publishing of course it influenced Apple first. And I’ve seen the same thing happen with interpersonal computing here at NeXT. We decided to put a NeXT machine on every employee’s desktop about 18 months ago and connect them with the very high-speed networking that’s built in. And I’ve seen the revolution here with my own eyes. And it’s actually larger than the first two. Let me give you some examples.

If we want to — if we’re going to be doing a special project let’s say with a company, and we — and let’s say the company is called, what’s your…WGBH. We’re going to be doing a special project with WGBH. And what we’ll do is we’ll create a special mailbox, WGBH and we’ll put twenty people on it that are going to be helping on this project. Now these twenty people will be from all over our company, from marketing, from sales, from engineering, some from manufacturing. Maybe some from our Boston office so they can be close by. And if one sends a message to this mailbox, they’ll all get it like that, instantly. And if one sends a reply they’ll copy the whole mailbox so the rest of the team members get to read the intellectual content going back and forth. And everyone on this, in this mailbox will probably get around 30 mail messages a day. And they’ll spend about twenty minutes, thirty minutes reading these and answering these per day. And it will be like a beehive.
Now this project is very important for our company and I want to make sure it’s getting off right. So I’ll put my own name on this mailbox and I’ll see these thirty mail messages fly by. All of the disagreements and the arguments and the thoughts and the decisions. And I can just let it fly by and read it. I can do some background coaching with a few people if I think they’re a little off track. I can get right on the network and kibbutz if I’d like. And after a month or so when I know that it’s going well I can take my name off. And so not only is this a way to organize violating all management and geographic boundaries, it’s also a way to manage where one can see. Again the thoughts, disagreements and decisions of a company fly by a manager in a way that they never could before. And we have seen it reduce the number of meetings we have at least by fifty percent. We’ve seen it get far more managers and individual contributors involved in decisions than there ever were before. We think the quality of the decisions is a lot higher. And we’ve seen a window for management to look into the process of this organism we call our company in a way that has never before been possible. As we become part of this electronically community that’s going to provide us wonderful new capabilities and communications abilities. But we still always want to be able to disconnect that network spigot, take it off, and take our standalone computer somewhere, let’s say home.

Now what’s going to happen rapidly as with radio links and with fiber optics to the home, you’re going to be able to hook your computer up to your network at home. But there’s always going to be that cabin in the middle of nowhere that I want to go for a two week vacation where I want my computer. And if it doesn’t work in a completely standalone way, I’m going to be not happy. So we have to provide a fluid way for these things to kind of dock into the mother load network, but also undock and allow me as an individual to carry my computer up into Yosemite backpacking. And where there’s no radio links and no fiber optic links and still be able to use it and then come back and dock back into the network and find out what happened when I left and share some of my thoughts maybe with some other folks. So we’re working on that. That’s our goal for the next five years is that seamless transition between a standalone computer and the computer as part of this network community.

That’s right. I actually think what – an interesting paradox is the network which is ultimately going to define and create the home computer market. Not keeping our recipes on these things or something like we thought in 1975. Being a part of that network and not being able to stay away from it while you’re home will drive people to get computers in every house just like we have a telephone in every house.
No I think, I think they’ll be just computers. Just like your phone isn’t your television set. Just like your toaster isn’t your radio. I think they’ll be computers and they’ll have many of the capabilities of these other devices. Multimedia, the ability to integrate sound and video in with the computer is absolutely coming. But a lot of people have mistaken it as the end rather than the means. We see multimedia as more of a means. In other words, people aren’t going to buy a computer for multimedia. They’re going to buy it for training. Or they’re going to buy it for interpersonal communication. And in that communication, in addition to a text, they’re going to want voice. They’re going to want, potentially I might want to send you a video clip. But the real market is to help us communicate better, or to help us train somebody. And we need to not lose sight of that.
Well Xerox PARC was a research lab set up by Xerox when they were making a lot of profits in copier days. And they were doing some computer science research which was basically an extension of some stuff started by a guy named Doug Engelbart when he was at SRI. Doug had invented the mouse, and invented the Bitmap display. And some Xerox folks that…that Xerox I believe hired away from Doug or split off from Doug somehow and got to Xerox, were continuing along in this vein. And I first went over there in 1979 and I saw what they were doing with the larger screens, proportionately spaced texts and the mouse. And it was just instantly obvious to anyone that this was the way things should be. And so I remember coming back to Apple thinking our…our future has just changed. This is where we have to go.

The problem was that Xerox had never made a commercial computer. This group of people at Xerox was…was was more concerned with looking out fifteen years than they were looking out fifteen months trying to make a product that somebody could use. So there were a lot of issues that they hadn’t solved like menus, other things like that. And at Apple what we had to do was to do two things. One was complete the research which really was only about fifty percent complete. And the second was to find a way to implement it at a low enough cost where people would buy it. And that was really our challenge.
Well the Macintosh as you remember when it came out, we called it the computer for the rest of us. And what that meant was that while experts could use some of the computers that were already out, most people didn’t 4want — again the computer was not an end in itself. It was a means to an end. And so most people didn’t want to learn how to use the computer. They just wanted to use it. And the Macintosh was supposed to be the computer for people that just wanted to use a computer without having to learn how to use one, spend six months.

Now it turned out that the paradox was that to make a computer easier to use you needed a more powerful computer in the first place because you were going to burn a lot of the cycles on making it easy to use. And so this computer that was easy to use was actually more powerful and could do more things than the less easy to use computer. And it took people a few years to figure that out about the Macintosh. But I think people did.
Well I think, I think the Macintosh was created by a group of people who felt that there wasn’t a strict division between sort of science and art. Or in other words, that mathematics is really a liberal art if you look at it from a slightly different point of view. And why can’t we interject typography into computers? Why can’t we have computers talking to us in English language? And looking back, five years later, this seems like a trivial observation. But at the time it was cataclysmic in its consequences. And the battles that were fought to push this point of view out the door were very large.
Well again after seeing… my entire life has been spent only in one industry which is this one. And but I’ve been in it now for about fifteen years and I’ve seen a lot of people make a lot of things. I’ve seen a lot of people fail a lot of things. And my point of view on this, or my observation is that the doers are the major thinkers. The people that really create the things that change this industry are both the thinker and doer in one person. And if we really go back and we examine, you know did Leonardo have a guy off to the side that was thinking five years out in the future what he would paint or the technology he would use to paint it, of course not. Leonardo was the artist but he also mixed all his own paints. He also was a fairly good chemist. He knew about pigments, knew about human anatomy. And combing all of those skills together, the art and the science, the thinking and the doing, was what resulted in the exceptional result. And there is no difference in our industry. The people that have really made the contributions have been the thinkers and the doers.

And when you – a lot of people of course, it’s very easy to take credit for the thinking. The doing is more concrete. But somebody, it’s very easy to say I thought of this three years ago. But usually when you dig a little deeper, you find that the people that really did it were also the people that really worked through the hard intellectual problems as well.
Well probably death is the best invention of life. Because it means there’s a constant turnover. And so if you want to make a change in our society, the best place to do it is in the educational system. So that you’re — there are, there are now generations of people that have come out of school who computers are second nature to them. And the people in our society that…that at this point still have, have not embraced these things are getting older, has that cycle, that wheel of birth and death turns, just like driving, people that don’t drive are very rare. Another generation or two, people don’t use computers are, will be pretty rare. It’s a harsh way of saying it but…
Actually you know, it wasn’t Intel that first figured out that the microprocessor was a computer. They designed these things to be used in calculators. And they thought, the reason that the microprocessor came about was they thought if they could design a slightly programmable one, the next customer that walked in the door that wanted a slightly different calculator they could just spend a few months rather than a few years designing a new piece of silicone. But I think the thought of making a computer never really occurred to them. And it was the hobbyists that thought about making a computer out of these things. It was the computer hobbyists community that first did that.

And I don’t think Intel quite understood that for a few years. But again the first thing that happened was these people came together and formed a club, the home group computer club at Stanford was the first one in the country. And it was a beehive of all of these people who were interested in these small little computers. People that might have been ham radio operators, people that might have you know worked with large computers were all gathered together to share, discuss their latest little projects. It was very exciting. And there was not a month that would go by where some breakthrough didn’t happen. And then the first magazine came along which was Byte magazine to communicate on a national scale with all these hobbyists. So that it was a very, very exciting dynamic time.
Well it didn’t quite work that way actually. What happened was that Woz and I had known each other since I was about 12 or l3 years old. And we built, our first project together was we built these little blue boxes to make free telephone calls. And we had the best blue box in the world. It was this all digital blue box. I don’t think it works anymore. But we had, we had a fun time doing that. So when it came to building a computer together Woz focused mostly, Woz was the brilliant hardware engineer and focused on the core design of the computer. And I was worrying about which parts we ought to use and how we were going to build these things and how it sort of, and somebody that wasn’t a Woz was going to manage to buy all the extra parts you still needed to buy and plug this thing together because you still needed to buy your own keyboard, your own display, and your own power supply. And so you needed to be pretty much of a hardware hobbyist.

Now we made the, a very important decision was to not offer our computers a kit. Even though you needed to buy these extra parts. The main computer board itself came fully assembled. We were the first company in the world to do that. Everybody else was offering their little computers a kit. And what that meant was was there was maybe an order of magnitude of more people who could actually buy our computer and use it than if they had to build it themselves. And the Apple II was actually the first computer to come fully assembled where you didn’t have to do anything. And the reason there was it was our observation that for every hardware hobbyist, someone who could either build the kit themselves or at least find these five or ten extra parts they needed, there were a thousand potential software hobbyists. And if they didn’t have to do anything with the hardware except use it, make… that meant write their own programs. Still there was a much larger group of people that could take advantage of this. So we wanted to reach them. That was the real breakthrough of the Apple II.
Well the Atlantic City computer show was the first… the first face to face gathering of personal computer hobbyists from all around the country was the show put on in Atlantic City in 1976. And it was in the basement of some dingy hotel. And it just happened to be about 300 degrees outside. So the basement, it was like a steambath. And it was impossible to be down there for longer than a half an hour without being completely drenched. And nevertheless there were a few hundred hobbyists completely drenched walking around for hours. And we had a little tiny booth there. There was a table tablecloth over a hotel table. And there were, Woz and I and a friend or two of our went there and we had our few Apple ls there and a little poster we made. And that was really our first computer show in the world.
A year later, I think maybe even nine months later, there was the first West coast computer fair which was a much more professional operation by, in comparison with Atlantic City. But still very every hobby oriented compared with what goes on today. And that was in San Francisco and there were maybe a hundred companies showing their wares. And it was attended by maybe a thousand people which was a lot for our industry at that time. l3,000, wow, really. 13,000 people. That’s a lot.
That’s a lot. I…I’d be surprised at that. But maybe he knows better than I do. 6,000. Thousands of people. And that’s when we introduced the Apple II. And I think the Apple II is probably the hit of the show at that time.
Well we found Regis by — I used to like Intel’s advertising. So I called him up one day and I said who does your advertising? And he said Regis McKenna. And I said what’s Regis McKenna? He said no it’s a person. He gave me his phone number and I called Regis up. He told us to go away about four or five times, but eventually he agreed to help us out. And then Mike Markkulla I found from a venture capitalist actually, told me that I should go talk to Mike Markkula. Now we hooked up with Mike just around the time we introduced the Apple II. Maybe a month before. But the Apple II was pretty much designed and ready to go. And then Mike came on board and things really started to take off.
Disk drive was crucial. One of the things that people forget when they think about…about Apple and the Apple II in particular was that we were the first company to come out with a reliable, inexpensive floppy disk drive. And we had a low cost floppy disk drive that really worked about two to three years before any of our competitors. And that was an incredibly important reason why the Apple II was successful. A matter of fact, there were a few others. The Apple II could hold up to 48 kilobytes of memory which today doesn’t seem like much, but at that time was maybe three times as much as its competitors. And that’s why Visicalc was written for the Apple II. It was the only computer that could hold it. And so if Visicalc had been written for some other computer you’d be interviewing somebody else right now. And it was because of that design decision and other design decisions like it that the Apple II really beat its competition.
Well the Apple II was the world’s first successful personal computer. And really defined the personal computer as we know it today. So I think it changed the world a lot from that point of view.
Well I think in the early days it was very easy because you would go to a home group computer club meeting and there was your whole market and so you could find out what they thought. Now if you show them your product and see what they thought and you could because products were much simpler then and within a few months you could change it all around and come back and show the new one.

But as the market got more sophisticated it was less easy to do that. And the problem is that market research can tell you what your customers think of something you show them. Or it can tell you what your customers want as an incremental improvement on what you have but very rarely can your customers predict something that they don’t even quite know they want yet. As an example no market research could have led to the development of the Macintosh or the personal computer in the first place. So there are these sort of non-incremental jumps that need to take place where it’s very difficult for market research to really contribute much in the early phases of thinking about how to — you know what those should be. However once you have made that jump possibly before the products on the market or even after is a great time to go check your instincts with the marketplace and verify that you’re on the right track. And usually when you show people something they’ll say oh my God this is fantastic. Or give you some feedback along those lines.
Well, at the time we started Apple, Woz was working for Hewlett-Packard, I was working for Atari, actually for Nolan Bushnell, designing video games. And we went to Atari and showed him our early prototypes and we went to HP. And we encouraged each company to hire it the other one and let us do this for them. And we got turned down in both places, probably for good reasons. But we started the company because it was the only alternative left, not because we wanted to.
Oh it didn’t take very long. It happened for me when I saw people that could never possibly design a computer, could never possibly build a hardware kit. Could never possibly assemble their own keyboards and monitors. Could never even write their own software using these things, then you knew something very big was going to happen. When we got into that stage where we were high enough on the food chain if you will that a lot of people could use these things and they were really liking it.
One could go on for a long time about how the US has forgotten about manufacturing which has certainly been true but we’re starting to wake up. And what we’re finding is is that time to market is very important and quality is very important and the way we can make tremendous increase in quality and reductions in time to market is through automation. So the automation isn’t there to lower the cost although it does do that, it’s really there to increase the quality and decrease the time it takes us to get our new product, as an example, to market which is very important in a technology based marketplace.

So we happen to be the lowest cost producer in the world already at NeXT of our class of products. We also happen to be one of the highest quality producers of our type of product in the world. And we think for a company to survive much less prosper in the nineties that these are going to be very very important things to be world class at. We’re not competing at the home group computer society anymore, we’re competing with Europe Inc. and Japan Inc. and IBM Inc. and in order to do that we really have to be world class manufacturers.
Well education been on computer networks for longer than almost anyone else. The Department of Defense has an office called DARPA and they funded a thing called ah ARPANET many many years ago to try to build a command and control network for military purposes. And they did a very brilliant thing. After they got a prototype working they gave it to the university community in America and said bang on this for awhile and see if it works and help us make it better. And after a few years of the university community doing that they created a separate version for military purposes but they left the educational version going. And that is tied together the research community of the United States now for about a decade. And it’s vital to the functioning of higher education in this country.

So higher education has actually led the way. That’s why we started off focusing exclusively on higher education because where else could you find five thousand people on a network but Carnegie Mellon University as an example. So higher education has been five years ahead of business in using computers in some of these powerful new ways which we’re going to see now ripple into business in the first half of the nineties. It’s pretty exciting.
So far computer used in K-12 has been primarily Apple IIs. And I wish, I wish that they’d been upgrading the MacIntosh as faster than they have been but I think that’s slowly happening and IBM is getting in there as well. The primary purpose of computing in K-12 has been just computer literacy and there’s been a bottleneck because there hasn’t been enough sophisticated courseware written and that’s a problem for our society in general amongst all the other problems with our K- 12 education system. One could talk about that for a few days easily.
Actually we wanted to get the Mac out a year before we did, so we had internal deadlines that we were not able to meet but by the time we set — by the time we bought the spots for the Super Bowl and things like that it was basically in the bag. It’s not that we didn’t work twenty four hours a day for the last six months to get it out but we were on the bomb run at that time.
Because the people that worked on it consider themselves and I certainly consider them artists. These are the people that under different circumstances would be painters and poets but because of that time that we live in this new medium has appeared in which to express oneself to one’s fellow species and that’s a medium of computing. And so a lot of people that would have been artists and scientists have gone into this field to express their feeling and so it seemed like the right thing to do.
Oh wow it was – well I got the first few rows had all the people that worked on the Mac. About a hundred people. A hundred fifty people that really made it happen were all seated in the first few rows and when it was introduced, after we went through it all and had the computer speak to people itself and things like that, the whole auditorium of that twenty five hundred people gave it a standing ovation and the whole first few rows of Mac folks were all just crying. All of us were just …. I was biting my tongue very hard because I had a little bit more to do. But it was a very very emotional moment because it was no longer ours. From that day forward it was no longer ours. We couldn’t change it. If we had a good idea the following day it was too late. It belonged to the world at that point in time.
I don't remember him but I do remember growing up in the late 50's and early 60's. It was a very interesting time in the United States. America was sort of at its pinnacle of post World War II prosperity and everything had been fairly straight and narrow from haircuts to culture in every way, and it was just starting to broaden into the 60's where things were going to start expanding out in new directions. Everything was still very successful. Very young. America seemed young and naive in many ways to me, from my memories at that time.
I remember John Kennedy being assassinated. I remember the exact moment that I heard he had been shot.
I was walking across the grass at my schoolyard going home at about three in the afternoon when somebody yelled that the President had been shot and killed. I must have been about seven or eight years old, I guess, and I knew exactly what it meant. I also remember very much the Cuban Missile Crisis. I probably didn't sleep for three or four nights because I was afraid that if I went to sleep I wouldn't wake up. I guess I was seven years old at the time and I understood exactly what was going on. I think everybody did. It was really a terror that I will never forget, and it probably never really left. I think that everyone felt it at that time.
I was very lucky. My father, Paul, was a pretty remarkable man. He never graduated from high school. He joined the Coast Guard in World War II and ferried troops around the world for General Patton; and I think he was always getting into trouble and getting busted down to Private.

He was a machinist by trade and worked very hard and was kind of a genius with his hands. He had a workbench out in his garage where, when I was about five or six, he sectioned off a little piece of it and said "Steve, this is your workbench now." And he gave me some of his smaller tools and showed me how to use a hammer and saw and how to build things. It really was very good for me. He spent a lot of time with me . . . teaching me how to build things, how to take things apart, put things back together.

WHAT READERS LIKE
Ashley Madison CEO Noel Biderman
This Ashley Madison hack story keeps getting worse and worse [u4]
open windows with clouds 164757 1280
4 overblown Windows 10 worries
Hands-on with the Samsung Galaxy Note 5
One of the things that he touched upon was electronics. He did not have a deep understanding of electronics himself but he'd encountered electronics a lot in automobiles and other things he would fix. He showed me the rudiments of electronics and I got very interested in that. I grew up in Silicon Valley. My parents moved from San Francisco to Mountain View when I was five. My dad got transferred and that was right in the heart of Silicon Valley so there were engineers all around.

Silicon Valley for the most part at that time was still orchards -- apricot orchards and prune orchards -- and it was really paradise. I remember the air being crystal clear, where you could see from one end of the valley to the other.
Right. Exactly. It was really the most wonderful place in the world to grow up. There was a man who moved in down the street, maybe about six or seven houses down the block, who was new in the neighborhood with his wife, and it turned out that he was an engineer at Hewlett-Packard and a ham radio operator and really into electronics. What he did to get to know the kids in the block was rather a strange thing: He put out a carbon microphone and a battery and a speaker on his driveway where you could talk into the microphone and your voice would be amplified by the speaker. Kind of strange thing when you move into a neighborhood but that's what he did.
I of course started messing around with this. I was always taught that you needed an amplifier to amplify the voice in a microphone for it to come out in a speaker. My father taught me that. I proudly went home to my father and announced that he was all wrong and that this man up the block was amplifying voice with just a battery. My father told me that I didn't know what I was talking about and we got into a very large argument. So I dragged him down and showed him this and he himself was a little befuddled.
I got to know this man, whose name was Larry Lang, and he taught me a lot of electronics. He was great. He used to build Heathkits. Heathkits were really great. Heathkits were these products that you would buy in kit form. You actually paid more money for them than if you just went and bought the finished product if it was available. These Heathkits would come with these detailed manuals about how to put this thing together and all the parts would be laid out in a certain way and color coded. You'd actually build this thing yourself.
I would say that this gave one several things. It gave one an understanding of what was inside a finished product and how it worked because it would include a theory of operation. But maybe even more importantly it gave one the sense that one could build the things that one saw around oneself in the universe. These things were not mysteries anymore. I mean you looked at a television set you would think that "I haven't built one of those but I could. There's one of those in the Heathkit catalog and I've built two other Heathkits so I could build that."

Things became much more clear that they were the results of human creation, not these magical things that just appeared in one's environment, that one had no knowledge of their interiors. It gave a tremendous level of self-confidence, that through exploration and learning one could understand seemingly very complex things in one's environment. My childhood was very fortunate in that way.
School was pretty hard for me at the beginning. My mother taught me how to read before I got to school and so when I got there I really just wanted to do two things. I wanted to read books because I loved reading books and I wanted to go outside and chase butterflies. You know, do the things that five year olds like to do. I encountered authority of a different kind than I had ever encountered before, and I did not like it. And they really almost got me. They came close to really beating any curiosity out of me.
By the time I was in third grade, I had a good buddy of mine, Rick Farentino, and the only way we had fun was to create mischief. I remember we traded everybody. There was a big bike rack where everybody put their bikes, maybe a hundred bikes in this rack, and we traded everybody our lock combinations for theirs on an individual basis and then went out one day and put everybody's lock on everybody else's bike and it took them until about ten o'clock that night to get all the bikes sorted out. We set off explosives in teacher's desks. We got kicked out of school a lot.

In fourth grade I encountered one of the other saints of my life. They were going to put Rick Farentino and I into the same fourth grade class, and the principal said at the last minute "No, bad idea. Separate them." So this teacher, Mrs. Hill, said "I'll take one of them." She taught the advanced fourth grade class and thank God I was the random one that got put in the class. She watched me for about two weeks and then approached me. She said, Steven, I'll tell you what. I'll make you a deal. I have this math workbook and if you take it home and finish on your own without any help and you bring it back to me, if you get it 80% right, I will give you five dollars and one of these really big suckers she bought and she held it out in front of me. One of these giant things. And I looked at her like "Are you crazy lady"? Nobody's ever done this before and of course I did it. She basically bribed me back into learning with candy and money and what was really remarkable was before very long I had such a respect for her that it sort of re-ignited my desire to learn.
She got me kits for making cameras. I ground my own lens and made a camera. It was really quite wonderful. I think I probably learned more academically in that one year than I learned in my life. It created problems, though, because when I got out of fourth grade they tested me and they decided to put me in high school and my parents said "No.". Thank God. They said "He can skip one grade but that's all."
But not to high school. And I found skipping one grade to be very troublesome in many ways. That was plenty enough. It did create some problems.
I'm sure it did. I'm a very big believer in equal opportunity as opposed to equal outcome. I don't believe in equal outcome because unfortunately life's not like that. It would be a pretty boring place if it was.

But I really believe in equal opportunity. Equal opportunity to me more than anything means a great education. Maybe even more important than a great family life, but I don't know how to do that. Nobody knows how to do that. But it pains me because we do know how to provide a great education. We really do. We could make sure that every young child in this country got a great education. We fall far short of that.
I know from my own education that if I hadn't encountered two or three individuals that spent extra time with me, I'm sure I would have been in jail. I'm 100% sure that if it hadn't been for Mrs. Hill in fourth grade and a few others, I would have absolutely have ended up in jail. I could see those tendencies in myself to have a certain energy to do something. It could have been directed at doing something interesting that other people thought was a good idea or doing something interesting that maybe other people didn't like so much.

When you're young, a little bit of course correction goes a long way. I think it takes pretty talented people to do that. I don't know that enough of them get attracted to go into public education. You can't even support a family on what you get paid. I'd like the people teaching my kids to be good enough that they could get a job at the company I work for, making a hundred thousand dollars a year. Why should they work at a school for thirty-five to forty thousand dollars if they could get a job here at a hundred thousand dollars a year? Is that an intelligence test?

The problem there of course is the unions. The unions are the worst thing that ever happened to education because it's not a meritocracy. It turns into a bureaucracy, which is exactly what has happened. The teachers can't teach and administrators run the place and nobody can be fired. It's terrible.
I absolutely don't believe that. As you've pointed out, I've helped with more computers in more schools than anybody else in the world and I absolutely convinced that is by no means the most important thing. The most important thing is a person. A person who incites your curiosity and feeds your curiosity; and machines cannot do that in the same way that people can.
The elements of discovery are all around you. You don't need a computer. Here - why does that fall? You know why? Nobody in the entire world knows why that falls. We can describe it pretty accurately but no one knows why. I don't need a computer to get a kid interested in that, to spend a week playing with gravity and trying to understand that and come up with reasons why.
You need a person. Especially with computers the way they are now. Computers are very reactive but they're not proactive; they are not agents, if you will. They are very reactive. What children need is something more proactive. They need a guide. They don't need an assistant. I think we have all the material in the world to solve this problem; it's just being deployed in other places. I've been a very strong believer in that what we need to do in education is to go to the full voucher system. I know this isn't what the interview was supposed to be about but it is what I care about a great deal. . . .

The market competition model seems to indicate that where there is a need there is a lot of providers willing to tailor their products to fit that need and a lot of competition which forces them to get better and better.

I used to think when I was in my twenties that technology was the solution to most of the world's problems, but unfortunately it just ain't so. I'll give you an analogy. Alot of times we think "Why is the television programming so bad? Why are television shows so demeaning, so poor?"

The first thought that occurs to you is "Well, there is a conspiracy: the networks are feeding us this slop because its cheap to produce. It's the networks that are controlling this and they are feeding us this stuff."

But the truth of the matter, if you study it in any depth, is that networks absolutely want to give people what they want so that will watch the shows. If people wanted something different, they would get it. And the truth of the matter is that the shows that are on television, are on television because that's what people want. The majority of people in this country want to turn on a television and turn off their brain and that's what they get. And that's far more depressing than a conspiracy.

Conspiracies are much more fun than the truth of the matter, which is that the vast majority of the public are pretty mindless most of the time. I think the school situation has a parallel here when it comes to technology. It is so much more hopeful to think that technology can solve the problems that are more human and more organizational and more political in nature, and it ain't so. We need to attack these things at the root, which is people and how much freedom we give people, the competition that will attract the best people.

Unfortunately, there are side effects, like pushing out a lot of 46 year old teachers who lost their spirit fifteen years ago and shouldn't be teaching anymore. I feel very strongly about this. I wish it was as simple as giving it over to the computer.
I always considered part of my job was to keep the quality level of people in the organizations I work with very high.
I have to tell you truly that I'm pretty ignorant about it because I haven't read any of them. I skimmed one one time and read the first ten pages and they got my birthday wrong by a year. If they can't even get this right then this is probably not worth reading. I don't even remember the name of the one I skimmed.


I always considered part of my job was to keep the quality level of people in the organizations I work with very high. That's what I consider one of the few things I actually can contribute individually -- to to really try to instill in the organization the goal of only having 'A' players. Because in this field, like in a lot of fields, the difference between the worst taxi cab driver and the best taxi cab driver to get you crosstown Manhattan might be two to one. The best one will get you there in fifteen minutes, the worst one will get you there in a half an hour. Or the best cook and the worst cook, maybe it's three to one. Pick something like that.

In the field that I'm in the difference between the best person and the worst person is about a hundred to one or more. The difference between a good software person and a great software person is fifty to one, twenty-five to fifty to one, huge dynamic range. Therefore, I have found, not just in software, but in everything I've done it really pays to go after the best people in the world.

It's painful when you have some people who are not the best people in the world and you have to get rid of them; but I found that my job has sometimes exactly been that: to get rid of some people who didn't measure up. And I've always tried to do it in a humane way. But nonetheless it has to be done and it is never fun.
Oh sure. Of course. At times I've been pretty hard about it and a lot of times people haven't wanted to leave and I haven't given them any choices.

If somebody wanted to write a book about me, most of my friends would never talk to them but they could go find the handful of a few dozen people that I fired in my life who hate my guts. It was certainly the case in the one book I skimmed. I mean it was just "let's throw the darts at Steve." Such is life. That's the world I've chosen to live in. If I didn't like that part of it enough, I'd escape and I haven't, so I'm willing to put up with that. But I certainly didn't find it very accurate
Apple was this incredible journey. I mean we did some amazing things there. The thing that bound us together at Apple was the ability to make things that were going to change the world. That was very important.

We were all pretty young. The average age in the company was mid to late twenties. Hardly anybody had families at the beginning and we all worked like maniacs, and the greatest joy was that we felt we were fashioning collective works of art much like twentieth century physics. Something important that would last, that people contributed to and then could give to more people; the amplification factor was very large.
It's not often in your life that you get that opportunity to amplify your values a hundred to one, let alone a million to one. That's really what we were doing.
In doing the Macintosh, for example, there was a core group of less than a hundred people, and yet Apple shipped over ten million of them. Of course everybody's copied it and it's hundreds of millions now. That's pretty large amplification, a million to one. It's not often in your life that you get that opportunity to amplify your values a hundred to one, let alone a million to one. That's really what we were doing.

If you look at what we tried to do, it was to say "Computation and how it relates to people is really in its infancy here. We are in the right place at the right time to change the course of that vector a little bit." What's interesting is that if you change the course of a vector near its origin, by time it gets a few miles out its course is radically different. We were very cognizant of this fact. From almost the beginning at Apple we were, for some incredibly lucky reason, fortunate enough to be at the right place at the right time. The contributions we tried to make embodied values not only of technical excellence and innovation -- which I think we did our share of -- but innovation of a more humanistic kind.


The things I'm most proud about at Apple is where the technical and the humanistic came together, as it did in publishing for example. The Macintosh basically revolutionized publishing and printing. The typographic artistry coupled with the technical understanding and excellence to implement that electronically -- those two things came together and empowered people to use the computer without having to understand arcane computer commands. It was the combination of those two things that I'm the most proud of. It happened on the Apple II and it happened on the Lisa, although there were other problems with the Lisa that caused it to be a market failure; and then it happened again big time on the Macintosh.

You used an interesting word in describing what you were doing. You were talking about art not engineering, not science. Tell me about that. I think there's actually very little distinction between an artist and a scientist or engineer of the highest calibre. I've never had a distinction in my mind between those two types of people. They've just been to me people who pursue different paths but basically kind of headed to the same goal which is to express something of what they perceive to be the truth around them so that others can benefit by it.
No. I think the artistry is in having an insight into what one sees around them. Generally putting things together in a way no one else has before and finding a way to express that to other people who don't have that insight so they can get some of the advantage of that insight that makes them feel a certain way or allows them to do a certain thing. I think that a lot of the folks on the Macintosh team were capable of doing that and did exactly that.
If you study these people a little bit more what you'll find is that in this particular time, in the 70's and the 80's the best people in computers would have normally been poets and writers and musicians. Almost all of them were musicians. A lot of them were poets on the side. They went into computers because it was so compelling. It was fresh and new. It was a new medium of expression for their creative talents. The feelings and the passion that people put into it were completely indistinguishable from a poet or a painter. Many of the people were introspective, inward people who expressed how they felt about other people or the rest of humanity in general into their work, work that other people would use. People put a lot of love into these products, and a lot of expression of their appreciation came to these things. It's hard to explain.
The computer industry is at a very critical juncture where those people are clearly leaving the field.
 Hard to say. They're not being attracted by something else. They're being driven out of the computer business. They're being driven out because the computer business is becoming a monopoly with Microsoft. Without getting into whether Microsoft gained its position legally or not -- who cares? The end product of the position is that the ability to innovate in the industry is being sucked dry. I think the smartest people have already seen the writing on the wall. I think some of the smartest young people are questioning whether they'll really get in it.
 When I left Apple it was a two billion dollar company. We were Fortune 300 and something. We were 350. When the Mac was introduced we were a billion-dollar corporation; so Apple grew from nothing to two billion dollars while I was there. That's a pretty high growth rate. It grew five times since I left basically on the back of the Macintosh.

I think what's happened since I left in terms of growth rate has been trivial compared with what it was like when I was there. What ruined Apple wasn't growth. What ruined Apple was values. John Sculley ruined Apple and he ruined it by bringing a set of values to the top of Apple which were corrupt and corrupted some of the top people who were there, drove out some of the ones who were not corruptible, and brought in more corrupt ones and paid themselves collectively tens of millions of dollars and cared more about their own glory and wealth than they did about what built Apple in the first place -- which was making great computers for people to use.

They didn't care about that anymore. They didn't have a clue about how to do it and they didn't take any time to find out because that's not what they cared about. They cared about making a lot of money. So they had this wonderful thing that a lot of brilliant people made called the Macintosh and they got very greedy. And instead of following the original trajectory of the original vision -- which was to make this thing an appliance, to get this out there to as many people as possible -- they went for profits and they made outlandish profits for about four years. Apple was one of the most profitable companies in America for about four years.

What that cost them was the future. What they should have been doing was making reasonable profits and going for market share, which was what we always tried to do.

Macintosh would have had a 33% market share right now, maybe even higher, maybe it would have even been Microsoft, but we'll never know. Now it's got a single-digit market share and falling. There's no way to ever get that moment in time back. The Macintosh will die in another few years and it's really sad.

The problem is this: No one at Apple has a clue as to how to create the next Macintosh because no one running any part of Apple was there when the Macintosh was made -- or any other product at Apple. They've just been living off that one thing now for over a decade and the last attempt was the Newton and you know what happened to that.

It's kind of tragic, but as unemotionally as I can be, that's what's happening. Unless somebody pulls a rabbit out of a hat, companies tend to have long glide slopes because of the installed bases. But Apple is just gliding down this slope and they're losing market share every year. Things start to spiral down once you get under a certain threshold. And when developers no longer write applications for your computer, that's when it really starts to fall apart.
Oh sure. Apple could have lived forever and kept shipping great products forever. Apple was for awhile like Sony. It was the place that made the coolest stuff.
There were two kinds of customers. There were the educational aspects of Apple and then there were sort of the non-educational.
On the non-educational side, Apple was two things. One, it was the first "lifestyle" computer and, secondly, it's hard to remember how bad it was in the early 1980's. With IBM taking over the world with the PC, with DOS out there; it was far worse than the Apple II. They tried to copy the Apple II and they had done a pretty bad job.

You needed to know a lot. Things were kind of slipping backwards. You saw the 1984 commercial. Macintosh was basically this relatively small company in Cupertino, California, taking on the goliath, IBM, and saying "Wait a minute, your way is wrong. This is not the way we want computers to go. This is not the legacy we want to leave. This is not what we want our kids to be learning. This is wrong and we are going to show you the right way to do it and here it is. It's called Macintosh and it is so much better. It's going to beat you and you're going to do it."

And that's what Apple stood for. That was one of the things.
The other thing was a little bit further back in time. One of the things that built Apple II's was schools buying Apple II's; but even so there was about only 10% of the schools that even had one computer in them in 1979 I think it was. When I grew up I was lucky because I was in Silicon Valley. When I was ten or eleven I saw my first computer. It was down at NASA Ames [Research Center]. I didn't see the computer, I saw a terminal and it was theoretically a computer on the other end of the wire. I fell in love with it.
I saw my first desktop computer at Hewlett-Packard which was called the 9100A. It was the first desktop in the world. It ran BASIC and APL, I think. I fell in love with it.

And I thought, looking at these statistics in 1979, I thought if there was just one computer in every school, some of the kids would find it. It will change their life.

We saw the rate at which this was happening and the rate at which the school bureaucracies were deciding to buy a computer for the school and it was real slow. We realized that a whole generation of kids was going to go through the school before they even got their first computer, so we thought: The kids can't wait. We wanted to donate a computer to every school in America.

It turns out that there are about a hundred thousand schools in America, about ten thousand high schools, about ninety thousand K through 8. We couldn't afford that as a company. But we studied the law and it turned out that there was a law already on the books, a national law that said that if you donated a piece of scientific instrumentation or computer to a university for educational and research purposes you can take an extra tax deduction. That basically means you don't make any money, you lose some but you don't lose too much. You lose about ten percent.

We thought that if we could apply that law, enhance it a little bit to extend it down to K through 8 and remove the research requirements so it was just educational, then we could give a hundred thousand computers away, one to each school in America and it would cost our company ten million dollars which was a lot of money to us at that time but it was less than a hundred million dollars if we didn't have that. We decided that we were willing to do that.
It was one of the most incredible things I've ever done. We found our local representative, Pete Stark over in East Bay and Pete and a few of us sat down an we wrote a bill. We literally drafted a bill to make these changes. We said "If this law changes we will donate a hundred thousand computers at a cost of ten million dollars to us."

We called it "the kids can't wait bill." Pete Stark introduced it in the House and Senator Danforth introduced it in the Senate and I refused to hire any lobbyists and I went back to Washington myself and I actually walked the halls of Congress for about two weeks, which was the most incredible thing. I met probably two-thirds of the House and over half of the Senate myself and sat down and talked with them.

It was very interesting. I found that the House Members are routinely less intelligent than the Senate and they were much more kneejerk to their constituencies -- which I found initially quite offensive but came to understand later to be a really good idea. Maybe that's what the framers wanted. They weren't supposed to think too much, they were supposed to represent. The Senators are supposed to think a little more. The Bill passed the House with the largest favorable majority of any tax bill in the history of this country. What happened was it was in during Carter's lame duck session and Bob Dole who was then Speaker of the House killed it. He would not bring it to the floor and we ran out of time. We would have had to have started the process over in the next year and I gave up.

However, fortunately something unique happened. California thought this was such a good idea they came to us and said "You don't have to do a thing. We're going to pass a bill that says 'Since you operate in the State of California and pay California Tax, we're going to pass this bill that says that if the federal bill doesn't pass, then you get the tax break in California'. You can do it in California, which is ten thousand schools". So we did. We gave away ten thousand computers in the State of California. We got a whole bunch of the software companies to give away software. We trained teachers for free and monitored this thing over the next few years. It was phenomenal. One of my great experiences and one of my biggest regrets was that really tried to do this on a national level and got so close. I don't think Bob Dole even knew what he was doing but he really unfortunately screwed up here.
Actually we had no concept of how to sell to corporate America because none of us had come from there. It was like another planet to us. Unfortunately I had to learn all that stuff.

If I only knew [then] what I know now we could have done a lot better. Our attempts to sell to corporate America were just bungled and we ended up just selling to people who just [were] sort of buying a product for its merit not because of the company it came from. I mean everybody was very hooked on Big Blue back then and they bought IBM. There was that famous phrase "You never get fired for buying IBM." We fortunately were able to change a lot of that. And Apple, as you know, I believe, is a bigger supplier of personal computers than IBM.
That's complicated. We basically wanted to keep doing what we were doing at Apple, to keep innovating. But we made a mistake, which was to try to follow the same formula we did at Apple, to make the whole widget. But the market was changing. The industry was changing. The scale was changing.
And in the end we knew we would be either the last company to make it or the first to not make it. We were right on the edge. We thought we would be the last one that made it, but we were wrong. We were the first one that didn't. We put an end to the companies that tried to do that.

We certainly made our fair share of mistakes, but in the end I think we should have taken a bit longer to realize the world was changing and just gone on to be a software company right off the bat.
The machine was the best machine in the world. Believe it or not, they're selling on the used market, in some cases, for more than we sold them for originally. They're hard to find even today. We haven't even made them for two, two and a half years.
Well first of all it, was a totally 'plug-and-play' machine. Except for Macintosh, that's hard to find. It's an extremely powerful machine, way beyond the Macintosh. So it sort of nicely combined the power of the workstations with the 'plug and playness' of the Mac. Second of all, the machine had a fit and finish that you don't find today.
I don't just mean in packaging; I mean in terms of operation. Simple things to complex things. Simple things like soft power on and off. A trivial little thing but as you know one, of the biggest reasons people lose information on computers is they turn them off at the wrong time. And when you get into a multi-tasking network system, that could have much more severe consequences. So we were the first people to do that and some of the only people who do that, where you push a button and you request the computer to turn off. It figures out what it needs to do to shut down gracefully and then turns itself off.


Of course the NeXT Computer was also the first computer with built-in high quality sound, CD quality sound. Most people do that now. It took them a long time but most people do that. It was just ahead of its time.
That's the real gem. I'll tell you an interesting story. When I was at Apple, a few of my acquaintances said "You really need to go over to Xerox PARC (which was Palo Alto Research Center) and see what they've got going over there."
They didn't usually let too many people in but I was able to get in there and see what they were doing. I saw their early computer called the Alto, which was a phenomenal computer, and they actually showed me three things there that they had working in 1976. I saw them in 1979. Things that took really until a few years ago for us to fully re-create, for the industry to fully re-create in this case with NeXTStep. However, I didn't see all three of those things. I only saw the first one, which was so incredible to me that it saturated me. It blinded me to see the other two. It took me years to re-create them and rediscover them and incorporate them back into the model, but they were very far ahead in their thinking. They didn't have it totally right, but they had the germ of the idea of all three things. And the three things were graphical user interfaces, object oriented computing and networking.
Let me go through those. Graphical interface: The Alto had the world's first graphical user interface. It had windows. It had a crude menu system. It had crude panels and stuff. It didn't work right but it basically was all there.

Objects: They had Smalltalk running, which was really the first object-oriented language. Simula was really the first, but Smalltalk was the first official object-oriented language.

Third, networking: They invented Ethernet there, as you know. And they had about two hundred Altos with servers hooked up in a local area network there doing email and everything else over the network, all in 1979. I was so blown away with the potential of the germ of that graphical user interface that I saw that I didn't even assimilate or even stick around to investigate fully the other two.

NeXTStep turned some of that vision into reality. It incorporated the world's first truly commercial object-oriented system, and really was the most networked system in the world when it came out. I think the world has made a lot of progress in networking but hasn't yet crossed the hurdle into objects and what's happened with NeXTStep. It's starting to get adopted by some very large corporate customers. It is now the most popular object-oriented system in the world, as objects are on the threshold of starting to move into the mainstream.

The company last year recorded its first profit in its nine-year history, and sold $50 million worth of software. I think we're going to have some significant growth this year and it's fairly clear that NeXT can get up to being a few-hundred-million-dollar software company in the next three or four years and be the largest company offering objects -- until Microsoft comes into the market at some point, probably with a pretty half-baked product.
Of course it's true. I remember being at Xerox at 1979. It was one of those sort of apocalyptic moments. I remember within ten minutes of seeing the graphical user interface stuff, just knowing that every computer would work this way some day; it was so obvious once you saw it. It didn't require tremendous intellect. It was so clear. The minute you understand objects, it's all exactly the same. All software will be written using object-oriented technology some day. You can argue about how long its going to take, who the winners and losers are going to be, but I don't think a rational person will debate its significance.
The Internet and the World Wide Web are clearly the most exciting thing going on in computing today. They're exciting for three or four reasons.
Number one, ultimately computers are turning into communications devices and ultimately we're spending more and more of the cycles of the computer to not only make it easy to use but to make it easy to communicate. The Web is the missing piece of the puzzle which is really going to power that vision much farther forward. It's very exciting in that way.
If you look at the ten most important revolutions in high-end graphics, in the last ten years, eight of them have come out of Pixar. All of the software that was used to make Terminator, for example -- to actually construct the images that you saw on the screen -- or Jurassic Park with all the dinosaurs, was Pixar Software. Industrial Light and Magic uses it as the base for all of their stuff.

But Pixar had another vision. Pixar's vision was to tell stories. To make real films. Our vision was to make the world's first animated feature film -- completely computer synthetic, sets, characters, everything. After ten years, we have done exactly that. We have developed tools, all proprietary, to do this, to manage the production of this thing as well as the drawing of this thing, computer synthetic drawing. We are finishing up making the world's first computer animated feature film. Pixar has written it, directed it, producing it. The Walt Disney Corporation is distributing it and it's coming out this year as Walt Disney's Christmas Picture. It's coming out November 11, I believe, and it's called "Toy Story." You will hear a lot about it because I think its going to be the most successful film of this year.

Secondly, it's very exciting because it is going to destroy vast layers of our economy and make available a presence in the marketplace for very small companies, one that is equal to very large companies.

Let me give you an example. A small three-person company in Phoenix, Arizona can have a Web server that looks identical if not better than IBM's or the Gap's or anybody else, any large company. They can gain access to this electronic distribution channel for free. They don't have to build buildings. They don't have to sign up a thousand distributors and have people to call on them, etc., etc. In essence, direct distribution from the manufacturer to the customer via the Internet, via the Web, direct contact, direct transactions and distribution via UPS or Federal Express -- that's going to be cheaper than going through all these middlemen or building hundreds of stores around the country. It is going radically change the way goods and services are discovered, sold and delivered, not only in this country but eventually all over the world.
As you know, electrons travel at the speed of light and so it tends to bring the world much closer together in terms of providers and customers. That's pretty exciting. The levelling of big and small. The levelling of near and distant.

The third reason it's very exciting is that Microsoft doesn't own it and I don't think they can. It's the one thing in the industry that Microsoft can probably never own. I think one of the things that's essential is that the government continue to fund the Internet as a public trust, as a public facility and remove any of these ridiculous notions of privatizing it that have been brought up. I don't think they're going to fly, thankfully.

The Internet cost the U.S. Federal Government about fifty to seventy-five million a year. This is peanuts for what its doing right now and even if that cost someday escalated to half a billion a year, which of course you could build the whole Internet each year from scratch if you had to, you could replace all the equipment, etc. That would be an extrodinarily small price to pay for keeping it from getting into the hands of any one company and thereby starting to destroy and control the innovation that could take place around the Internet. It's the one last bright spot of hope in the computer industry for some serious innovation to happen at a rapid pace.

What's also great about it, again, is that the U.S. in the forefront here. That's what's great about the whole personal computer software industry. This is another example where the U.S. is in the forefront. It should be kept open. It should be kept free.
Yes, I am optimistic about it staying free but before you say it's global too fast, it's estimated that over one-third of the total Internet traffic in the world originates or destines in California. So I actually think this is a pretty typical case where California is again on the leading edge not only in a technical but cultural shift. So I do expect the Web to be a worldwide phenomenon, distributed fairly broadly. But right now I think it's a U.S. phenomenon that's moving to be global, and one which is very concentrated in certain pockets, such as California.
This story is very interesting. I got hooked up with some folks. Again a friend of mine told me I should go visit these crazy guys up in San Rafael, California who were working at Lucasfilm. Now George Lucas, who produced the Star Wars film trilogy, was a smart guy, and at one point when he had a lot of money coming in from these films he realized that he ought to start a technology group. He had a few problems he wanted to solve.

I'll give you an example of one. When you make a copy of analog audio recording, like tape cassette to another tape cassette, you pick up noise artifacts, in this case hiss. If you make a second-generation copy it gets worse exponentially. The same is true of optical analog copies. You take a piece of film, make an optical copy, you pick up noise artifacts, in this case optical noise which comes across as blurriness in some cases, comes across as other noise artifacts in other cases.
Now George, to make Star Wars, actually had to composite together up to thirteen pieces of film for each frame. The matt paintings for the backgrounds might be a few pieces of film, the models might be a few pieces of film, the live action might be a few pieces of film, some special effects might be a few pieces of film. And every time he'd make a copy to composite two together and then add a third, then add a fourth, he was adding noise artifacts with each generation. If you go buy a laser disk of any of the Star Wars Films, if you stop it on some of the frames, they are really grungy. Incredibly noisy, very bad quality.


George being the perfectionist he was, said "I'd like to do it perfectly," do it digitally; and nobody had ever done that before. He hired some very smart people and they figured out how to do it for him, digitally with no noise artifacts. They developed software and actually built some specialized hardware at the time. George had at some point decided that this is costing him several million dollars a year and decided that he didn't want to fund it anymore, so I bought this group from George Lucas and I incorporated it as Pixar and we set about revolutionizing high-end computer graphics.

It's phenomenal. Tom Hanks is the main character's voice. Tim Allen is the second main character. Randy Newman's doing the music for it. It's just phenomenal.
There's a lot of hoopla about Hollywood and Silicon Valley converging. They call it "Sillywood" I think. Pixar is really going to be the first digital studio in the whole world. It really combines art and technology together. Again in a very wonderful way. Pixar's got by far and away the best computer graphics talent in the entire world and it now has the best animation and artistic talent in the whole world to do these kinds of film. We have the second largest group of animators in the world outside of Disney and we think the most talented in the world working side by side with these computer scientists, the best graphics people in the world. There's really no one else in the world who could do this stuff. It's really phenomenal. We're probably close to ten years ahead of anybody else.
I think yes. One might sometimes say in despair no, but I think yes. And the reason is because human minds settle into fixed ways of looking at the world and that's always been true and it's probably always going to be true.
I've always felt that death is the greatest invention of life. I'm sure that life evolved without death at first and found that without death, life didn't work very well because it didn't make room for the young. It didn't know how the world was fifty years ago. It didn't know how the world was twenty years ago. It saw it as it is today, without any preconceptions, and dreamed how it could be based on that. We're not satisfied based on the accomplishment of the last thirty years. We're dissatisfied because the current state didn't live up to their ideals. Without death there would be very little progress.

One of the things that happens in organizations as well as with people is that they settle into ways of looking at the world and become satisfied with things and the world changes and keeps evolving and new potential arises but these people who are settled in don't see it. That's what gives start-up companies their greatest advantage. The sedentary point of view is that of most large companies.
In addition to that, large companies do not usually have efficient communication paths from the people closest to some of these changes at the bottom of the company to the top of the company which are the people making the big decisions. There may be people at lower levels of the company that see these changes coming but by the time the word ripples up to the highest levels where they can do something about it, it sometimes takes ten years. Even in the case where part of the company does the right thing at the lower levels, usually the upper levels screw it up somehow. I mean IBM and the personal computer business is a good example of that.

I think as long as humans don't solve this human nature trait of sort of settling into a world view after a while, there will always be opportunity for young companies, young people to innovate. As it should be.
I get asked this a lot and I have a pretty standard answer which is, a lot of people come to me and say "I want to be an entrepreneur." And I go "Oh that's great, what's your idea?"And they say "I don't have one yet." And I say "I think you should go get a job as a busboy or something until you find something you're really passionate about because it's a lot of work."
I'm convinced that about half of what separates the successful entrepreneurs from the non-successful ones is pure perseverance. It is so hard. You put so much of your life into this thing. There are such rough moments in time that I think most people give up. I don't blame them. It's really tough and it consumes your life. If you've got a family and you're in the early days of a company, I can't imagine how one could do it. I'm sure it's been done but it's rough. It's pretty much an eighteen hour day job, seven days a week for awhile. Unless you have a lot of passion about this, you're not going to survive. You're going to give it up. So you've got to have an idea, or a problem or a wrong that you want to right that you're passionate about, otherwise you're not going to have the perseverance to stick it through. I think that's half the battle right there.
That question can be taken on many levels. Obviously if you're running a company you have responsibilities but as an individual I don't think you have responsibilities. I think the work speaks for itself. I don't think that people have special responsibilities just because they've done something that other people like or don't like. I think the work speaks for itself.
I think people could choose to do things if they want to but we're all going to be dead soon, that's my point of view. Somebody once told me, they said "Live each day as if it would be your last and one day you'll certainly be right." I do that. You never know when you're going to go but you are going to go pretty soon. If you're going to leave anything behind it's going to be your kids, a few friends and your work. So that's what I tend to worry about. I don't tend to think about responsibility. A matter of fact I tend to like to on occasion pretend I don't have any responsibilities. I try to remember the last day when I didn't have anything to do and didn't have anything to do the following day that I had to do and I had no responsibilities. It was decades ago. I pretend when I want to feel that way. I don't think in those terms. I think you have a responsibility to do really good stuff and get it out there for people to use and let them build on the shoulders of it and keep making better stuff.
In our business, one person can't do anything anymore. You create a team of people around you. You have a responsibility of integrity of work to that team. Everybody does try to turn out the best work that they can.
No. Not really. Timeframe's an interesting thing when you think about people looking back. I do think when people look back on this in a hundred years, they're going to see this as a remarkable time in history. And especially this area believe it or not. When you think of the innovation that's come out of this area, Silicon Valley and the whole San Francisco Berkeley Bay area, you've got the invention of the integrated circuit, the invention of the microprocessor, the invention of semiconductor memory, the invention of the modern hard disk drive, the invention of the modern floppy disk drive, the invention of the personal computer, invention of genetic engineering, the invention of object-oriented technology, the invention of graphical user interfaces at PARC, followed by Apple, the invention of networking. All that happened in this Bay area. It's incredible.
Two or three reasons. You have to go back a little [in] history. I mean this is where the beatnik happened in San Francisco. It's a pretty interesting thing. This is where the hippy movement happened. This is the only place in America where Rock 'n Roll really happened. Right? Most of the bands in this country, Bob Dylan in the 60's, I mean they all came out of here. I think of Joan Baez to Jefferson Airplane to the Grateful Dead. Everything came out of here, Janis Joplin, Jimmy Hendrix, everybody. Why is that?

You've also had Stanford and Berkeley, two awesome universities drawing smart people from all over the world and depositing them in this clean, sunny, nice place where there's a whole bunch of other smart people and pretty good food. And at times a lot of drugs and all of that. So they stayed. There's a lot of human capital pouring in. Really smart people. People seem pretty bright here relative to the rest of the country. People seem pretty open-minded here relative to the rest of the country. I think it's just a very unique place and its got a track record to prove it and that tends to attract more people. I give a lot of credit to the universities, probably the most credit of anything to Stanford and Berkeley, UC California.
